I got Roe v. Wade terminated and I'm proud to have done it
You wouldn't be asking that question even talking about the issue because for 54 years they were trying to get Roe. V. Wade terminated and I did it and I'm proud to have done it. They wanted to get it back, right? You wouldn't have that because there would be no question. Nobody else was going to get that done. And we did it and we did something that was a miracle.
Source: Fox News Town Hall 2024 pre-Iowa caucus , Jan 10, 2024

Falsely claims Democrats want to execute babies after birth
Things got heated when Trump was named by the Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America organization's president, who condemned his stance as "morally indefensible" after claiming abortion "is an issue that should be decided at the state level," instead of the national ban. But fighting back in his pre-recorded speech, Trump listed off a number of his so-called achievements to protect "religious liberty" and "the unborn." He also called himself the "most pro-life president in American history."
In one particularly deranged moment, Trump falsely claimed that Democratic politicians support the practice of executing babies after they've been born: "I will continue to stand strong against the extreme late-term abortionists, the Democrat party, who believe in abortion on demand in the ninth month of pregnancy, and even executing babies after birth. Beyond birth, executing the baby. This is where we've come and it's so sad to see."
Source: The Daily Beast on 2023 Faith & Freedom Coalition , Apr 23, 2023

I won't influence how Justices vote on Roe v Wade
Depending on what happens with Roe v. Wade, I think that perhaps it could get sent down to the states, and the states would decide. I also think perhaps nothing will happen. I have not talked to [Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett] about it. It would be inappropriate to talk to her about it. And some people would say, "You can talk to about it." I just think it would be inappropriate. How she's going to rule, you're going to find out perhaps. Or you might not find out. We'll see what happens.
Source: Second 2020 Presidential Debate/NBC Town Hall Miami , Oct 15, 2020

Ban the late-term abortion of babies
In 2017, doctors delivered one of the earliest premature babies ever to survive. Born at just 21 weeks and 6 days, Ellie Schneider was born a fighter. Today, Ellie is a strong, healthy 2-year-old girl. 50% of very premature babies delivered at the hospital where Ellie was born now survive. That is why I am asking the Congress to provide an additional $50 million to fund neo-natal research. I am calling upon Congress to pass legislation finally banning the late-term abortion of babies.
Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

End medical research that uses tissue from aborted fetuses
The Trump administration announced that the federal government would sharply curtail federal spending on medical research that uses tissue from aborted fetuses, mainly by ending fetal-tissue research within the National Institutes of Health.
The move goes a long way toward fulfilling a top goal of anti-abortion groups that have lobbied hard for it. But scientists say the tissue is crucial for studies that benefit millions of patients.
"Promoting the dignity of human life from conception to natural death is one of the very top priorities of President Trump's administration," the department said in a statement. It added that about 200 research projects involving fetal tissue and conducted at universities with N.I.H. grants would be allowed to continue until their funding expires, but that ethics advisory boards would review and recommend whether to fund future individual projects involving aborted fetal tissue.
Source: New York Times on 2019-2020 Trump Administration , Jun 5, 2019

Cherish innocent life instead of ripping babies from womb
Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments before birth. These are living, feeling, beautiful babies who will never get the chance to share their love and dreams with the world. And then, we had the case of the Governor of Virginia where he basically stated he would execute a baby after birth.
To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother's womb.
Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life. And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: all children--born and unborn--are made in the holy image of God.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

Completed conversion from 1999 pro-choice to 2019 pro-life
President Donald Trump--who once described himself as "very pro-choice"--burnished his anti-abortion credentials during his State of the Union address with harsh attacks on recent state actions. (Trump called himself "very pro-choice" in 1999.)
Trump charged lawmakers in New York with having "cheered with delight" after recently passing legislation to "allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments before birth." He accused Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam of "basically" stating that "he would execute a baby after birth." [see separate Fact-Checks!]
"There could be no greater contrast to the beautiful image of a mother holding her infant than the chilling displays our nation saw in recent days," Trump said, in calling for legislation to curb 3rd-trimester abortions.
It was the first time that Trump mentioned abortion in any of his three addresses to Congress since becoming president. Republicans see abortion as an issue that will help fire up Trump's base for his 2020 re-election.
Source: USA Today fact-check on 2019 State of the Union speech , Feb 5, 2019

Increased programs and funds covered by Mexico City policy
One of his very first acts [as President] was reinstating the pro-life "Mexico City Policy," requiring nongovernmental organizations to agree not to "perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations". But in typical Trump fashion, he went bigger and bolder by significantly increasing the amount of global health assistance funds and government programs that would be covered under the policy. In another significant move, Trump signed a resolution into law that gives states the ability to withhold federal dollars from facilities that provide abortions.
Source: The Faith of Donald J. Trump, by Brody & Lamb, p.271 , Feb 3, 2018

Reinstate Mexico City Policy: end abortion funding abroad
Trump signed an executive order to reinstate the Mexico City Policy, a policy regarding non-governmental organization (NGO) funding and abortion named after the city in which it was announced. The Mexico City Policy--called the "Global Gag Rule" by political opponents--was introduced by President Ronald Reagan (R) in 1984 and makes "neither performing nor actively promoting abortion as a method of family planning in other nations" conditions of receiving federal funding for any NGO. Rescinding or reinstating this policy has become a tradition when party control of the White House changes. After being instituted in 1984 by Reagan, President Bill Clinton (D) rescinded the policy on January 22, 1993. Exactly nine years later, President George W. Bush (R) reinstated the policy, only to have in rescinded by President Barack Obama (D) on January 23, 2009.
Source: Ballotpedia.org coverage of 2017 Trump transition , Jan 27, 2017

Unpredictable abortion funding good; Planned Parenthood bad
Q: Should Planned Parenthood receive funds from federal or state governments?
Trump: "I do not want to say that because I want to show unpredictability. You have to. You can't just go around and say that. But Planned Parenthood should absolutely be defunded. I mean if you look at what's going on with that, it's terrible. And many of the things should be defunded and many things should be cut."; "I would look at the individual things that they do and maybe some of the things are good," Trump said. "We have to take care of women. We have to absolutely take care of women. The abortion aspect of Planned Parenthood should not--absolutely should not--be funded."
Clinton: "I have seen excerpts from [the anti-Planned Parenthood videos]. And I have certainly read about them. And what I am troubled by are the misleading, inaccurate allegations about them that we heard from Republicans at their debate."
Source: 2016 AFA Action iVoterGuide on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Nov 8, 2016

Not acceptable to rip baby from womb in 9th month
CLINTON: [On partial-birth abortion]. Roe v. Wade very clearly sets out that there can be regulations on abortion so long as the life and the health of the mother are taken into account. The kinds of cases that fall at the end of pregnancy are often the most heartbreaking, painful decisions for families to make. I do not think the US government should be stepping in and making those most personal of decisions.
TRUMP: If you go with what Hillary is saying, in the ninth month, you can rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth of the baby. Now, Hillary can say that that's OK. But it's not OK with me, because based on what she's saying, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month on the final day. And that's not acceptable.
Q: Is it the government's business to be in that decision?
TRUMP: Honestly, nobody has business doing what I just said, doing that, as late as one or two or three or four days prior to birth. Nobody has that.
Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Oct 19, 2016

Overturn Roe v, Wade and return abortion laws to the states
Q: Do you want the court, including the justices that you will name, to overturn Roe v. Wade, which includes -- in fact, states -- a woman's right to abortion?
TRUMP: Well, if that would happen, because I am pro-life, and I will be appointing pro-life judges, I would think that that will go back to the individual states. If we put another two or perhaps three justice on, that's really what's going to be. That'll happen automatically, in my opinion, because I am putting pro-life justices on the court. I will say this: It will go back to the states, and the states will then make a determination.
CLINTON: I strongly support Roe v. Wade, which guarantees a constitutional right to a woman to make the most intimate decisions about her health care that one can imagine. And in this case, it's not only about Roe v. Wade. It is about what's happening right now in America. So many states are putting very stringent regulations on women that block them from exercising that choice.
Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate in Las Vegas , Oct 19, 2016
Millions are helped by Planned Parenthood, but defund it
Sen. Marco RUBIO [to Trump]: Very recently, [Trump] was still defending Planned Parenthood.
TRUMP: As far as Planned Parenthood is concerned, I'm pro-life. I'm totally against abortion, having to do with Planned Parenthood. But millions and millions of women -- cervical cancer, breast cancer -- are helped by Planned Parenthood. So you can say whatever you want, but they have millions of women going through Planned Parenthood that are helped greatly. And I wouldn't fund it. I would defund it because of the abortion factor, which they say is 3 percent. I don't know what percentage it is. They say it's 3%. But I would defund it, because I'm pro-life. But millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood.
Source: 2016 CNN-Telemundo Republican debate on eve of Texas primary , Feb 25, 2016

Planned Parenthood does great work on women's health
Sen. Ted CRUZ: For most of his life, Trump's policies have been liberal. For most of his life, he has described himself as pro-choice and a supporter of partial birth abortion. Today, he supports federal tax payer funding for Planned Parenthood. I disagree with him on that.
TRUMP: You are the biggest liar. Today, we had robo-calls saying. "Donald Trump is not going to run in South Carolina," -- where I'm leading by a lot." I'm not going to vote for Ted Cruz. This guy will say anything, nasty guy. Now I know why he doesn't have one endorsement from any of his colleagues.
CRUZ: You said, "Planned Parenthood does wonderful things and we should not defund it."
TRUMP: It does do wonderful things but not as it relates to abortion. There are wonderful things having to do with women's health, but not when it comes to abortion.
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

Defund Planned Parenthood
Q: Would you be willing to shut down the government in order to defund Planned Parenthood or to put some other key policy goals?
TRUMP: I do not want to say that because I want to show unpredictability. You have to. You can't just go around and say that. But Planned Parenthood should absolutely be defunded. I mean if you look at what's going on with that, it's terrible. And many of the things should be defunded and many things should be cut.
Source: Fox News Sunday 2015 Coverage of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Oct 18, 2015

1998: I hate abortion yet I'm totally for choice
[Reviewing Trump's stances from 1998]: Q: Abortion?
TRUMP: I hate the concept of abortion. I hate anything about abortion, and yet, I'm totally for choice. I think you have no alternative.
Source: Snopes.com Fact-Check on 2016 Presidential Hopefuls , Oct 16, 2015

Planned Parenthood is important, but abortions must stop
Q: Were you ever a donor to Planned Parenthood?
TRUMP:I don't know--but it's possible. I give to so many organizations over the years. Hundreds of millions of dollars, so I really don't know. But look, Planned Parenthood has to stop with the abortions. A lot of people consider it an abortion clinic. I think those tapes that I saw were outrageous and disgusting by any standpoint. And they have to stop.
Q: So you would not shut down the government over Planned Parenthood funding?
TRUMP: I wouldn't fund it if they have abortion going on. Now, you hear all different numbers. They say it's 3%, other people say it's 85%. That's a big difference. So I'd certainly look into it.
Q: But would you shut down the government over this dispute?
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interviews of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 16, 2015

I have evolved on abortion issue, like Reagan evolved
Q: In 1999, you said you were "very pro- choice." Even supporting partial-birth abortion.
TRUMP: I've evolved on many issues over the years. And you know who else has? Is Ronald Reagan evolved on many issues. And I am pro-life. And if you look at the question, I was in business. They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice. And I said if you let [that quoted excerpt] run, that I hate the concept of abortion. I hate the concept of abortion. And then since then, I've very much evolved. And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted. And it wasn't aborted. And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child. And I saw that. And I saw other instances. And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life.
Source: Fox News/Facebook Top Ten First Tier debate transcript , Aug 6, 2015

Ban late abortions; exceptions for rape, incest or health
What does Donald Trump believe? Social Issues: Abortion should be limited.
Describing himself as "pro-life," Trump told Bloomberg News in January that he believes abortion should be banned at some point in pregnancy, with exceptions for rape, incest or life of the mother. In 2011 he explained to the Christian Broadcasting Network that he had changed his mind on the issue. In "The America We Deserve," Trump then wrote that he supported a woman's right to choose.
Source: PBS News Hour "2016 Candidate Stands" series , Jun 16, 2015

Undecided on embryonic stem cell research
Trump commented on the issue of embryonic stem cell research--important because President Barack Obama overturned the pro-life protections President George W. Bush put into place that prevented taxpayers from being forced to pay for new research that included the destruction of human life for a process that has yet to help a single patient.
Trump said he's undecided on the controversial science and he wants to investigate it further before formulating an official position. He also appeared to recognize the controversial nature of embryonic stem cell research by assuring the newspaper he has not funded it in his business enterprises.
"I would say that I'd like to get back to you because I'm studying it very closely," Trump said. "It's an issue, don't forget, that as a businessman I've never been involved in."
Source: LifeNews.com, "Trump opposes most abortions" , Apr 25, 2011

I am now pro-life; after years of being pro-choice
Donald Trump shocked attendees at the conservative CPAC conference in February when he declared himself pro-life after years of supporting the pro-abortion position. Several months ago, when questioned about his position, Trump responded by saying the public "would be surprised" by his stance and, in an interview with Laura Ingraham from Fox News leading up to the conference, Trump characterized himself as "pro-life" and he repeated that apparent reversal when he told the audience at CPAC, "I am pro-life" and pledged to fight for the reversal of ObamaCare, which contains abortion funding loopholes.
As the 2012 race intensifies, pro-life advocates must call upon Donald Trump to further explain his stand on important pro-life issues like Supreme Court nominations and repeal of the pro-abortion Obama healthcare law.
Source: Steven Ertelt in LifeNews.com , Apr 8, 2011

I changed my views to pro-life based on personal stories
Q: Evangelicals want to feel secure that they're going to have a nominee that's solid on those social issues.
A: One thing about me, I'm a very honorable guy. I'm pro-life, but I changed my view a number of years ago. One of the primary reasons I changed [was] a friend of mine's wife was pregnant, and he didn't really want the baby. He was crying as he was telling me the story. He ends up having the baby and the baby is the apple of his eye. It's the greatest thing that's ever happened to him. And you know here's a baby that wasn't going to be let into life. And I heard this, and some other stories, and I am pro-life.
Q: So those stories did change you, they came around and changed you?
A: They changed me. Yeah, they changed my view as to that, absolutely.
Source: David Brody interview on CBN.com , Apr 8, 2011
I am pro-life; fight ObamaCare abortion funding
Billionaire Donald Trump told the Conservative Political Action Conference that he's thinking about running for president. His remarks drew lots of applause and cheers from the crowd, who will play a key role in grass-roots organizing for the eventual 2012 GOP presidential nominee. "I'm well acquainted with winning," Trump said. "That's what this country needs now."
In his CPAC speech, Trump sounded many themes popular with Republican conservatives. "I am pro-life," he said. "I am against gun control."
And in one of his biggest applause lines, Trump vowed to end the nation's health care law: "I will fight to end Obamacare and replace it with something that makes sense for
Source: USA Today report on 2011 Conservative Political Action Conf. , Feb 10, 2011

Pro-choice, but ban partial birth abortion
I support a woman’s right to choose, but I am uncomfortable with the procedures. When Tim Russert asked me on Meet the Press if I would ban partial-birth abortion, my pro-choice instincts led me to say no. After the show, I consulted two doctors I respect and, upon learning more about this procedure, I have concluded that I would support a ban.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p. 31-32 , Jul 2, 2000

Favors abortion rights but respects opposition
Trump clarified his views on abortion, saying he favors abortion rights, but respects those who oppose his position. “I believe it is a personal decision that should be left to the women and their doctors,” he said.
Source: Pat Eaton-Robb, Associated Press, on 2000 presidential race , Dec 2, 1999

Opposes public funding for abortion services.
Trump opposes the CC survey question on Planned Parenthood
The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'Public Funding of Abortions (Such as Govt. Health Benefits and Planned Parenthood)' The Christian Coalition notes, "You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives."
Source: Christian Coalition Survey 16_CC1a on Nov 8, 2016

Supports parental notification for abortions by minors.
Trump supports the CC survey question on parental notification
The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'Parental Notification for Abortions by Minors' The Christian Coalition notes, "You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives."
Source: Christian Coalition Survey 16_CC1b on Nov 8, 2016

Supports judges who strictly interpret Constitution.
Trump supports the CC survey question on Strict Constituionalism
The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'Appointing Judges Who Will Adhere to a Strict Interpretation of the Constitution' The Christian Coalition notes, `You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives, but now we need you.
Source: Donald J. Trump
