 I don't know about QAnon; but I agree on opposing pedophilia
Q: Let me ask you about QAnon. It is this theory that Democrats are a satanic pedophile ring and that you are the savior of. Can you state that that is completely not true?

TRUMP: I know nothing about QAnon.

Q: I just told you.

TRUMP: What you tell me, doesn't necessarily make it fact. I do know they are very much against pedophilia. They fight it very hard. But I know nothing about it. If you'd like me to study the subject--

Q: They believe that there's a Satanic cult run by the deep state.

TRUMP: I'll tell you what I do know about. I know about Antifa--

Q: Republican Senator Ben Sasse said, "QAnon is nuts and real leaders call conspiracy theories."

TRUMP: He may be right.

Q: Why not just say, "it's crazy and not true?"

TRUMP: I just don't know about QAnon. What I do hear about it, is they are very strongly against pedophilia. And I agree with that very strongly.

Q: But there's not a Satanic pedophile cult being?

TRUMP: I have no idea. I know nothing about them.
Source: Second 2020 Presidential Debate/NBC Town Hall Miami , Oct 15, 2020

Our children are taught in school to hate their own country
Our nation is witnessing a merciless campaign to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values, and indoctrinate our children.

Our children are taught in school to hate their own country, and to believe that the men and women who built it were not heroes, but that were villains. The radical view of American history is a web of lies--all perspective is removed, every virtue is obscured, every motive is twisted, every fact is distorted, and every flaw is magnified until the history is purged and the record is disfigured beyond all recognition.

This attack on our magnificent liberty must be stopped. We will expose this dangerous movement, protect our nation's children, end this radical assault, and preserve our beloved American way of life.
Source: Trump Administration: Trump Remarks at Mount Rushmore , Jul 4, 2020

Expanded child tax credit was pushed by Ivanka Trump
And 40 million American families are enjoying an average of $2,200 more in their pocket thanks to a beautiful thing that Republicans really don't know about too much. You know, the Democrats like to take credit. It's called "child tax credit." We took that. That was Ivanka Trump. She wanted that so badly.
Source: Remarks by President Trump at the 2020 CPAC Conference , Feb 29, 2020

Paid family leave for federal employees
I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the Federal workforce paid family leave, serving as a model for the rest of the country. Now, I call on the Congress to pass the bipartisan Advancing Support for Working Families Act, extending family leave to mothers and fathers all across the Nation.

Congressional Summary: HR.5296 and S.2976: The Advancing Support for Working Families Act allows individual taxpayers an election to advance up to $5,000 of the child tax credit in the year of birth or adoption of an applicable qualifying child [Status: 13 bipartisan co-sponsors in House and Senate].

FCW.com explanation of Family Leave:
The National Defense Authorization Act included a family leave amendment by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). The benefit was added in a bit of legislative horse-trading that allowed for the establishment of Space Force. Pres. Trump signed the NDAA on 12/20/2019, in time to avoid a government shutdown on 12/21.
Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

Doubled the child tax credit
Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in half a century. African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. More people are working now than at any time in our history--157 million.

We passed a massive tax cut for working families and doubled the child tax credit. We virtually ended the estate, or death, tax on small businesses, ranches, and family farms.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

Girls smuggled across border into modern-day slavery
Tolerance for illegal immigration is not compassionate--it is cruel. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the long journey north. Smugglers use migrant children as human pawns to exploit our laws and gain access to our country.

Human traffickers and sex traffickers take advantage of the wide open areas between our ports of entry to smuggle thousands of young girls and women into the United States and to sell them into prostitution and modern-day slavery.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

Bipartisan effort to implement paid family leave
Democrats and Republicans should unite for the good of the American people. My administration wants to work with members in both parties to make childcare accessible and affordable, to help ensure new parents have paid family leave, to invest in women's health, and to promote clean air and clear water, and to rebuild our military.

True love for our people requires us to find common ground, to advance the common good, and to cooperate on behalf of every American child who deserves a brighter future.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

I have great respect for women; despite locker-room talk
Q: We received a lot of questions about a video in which you described kissing women without consent, grabbing their genitals. You bragged that you have sexually assaulted women.

TRUMP: No, I didn't say that at all. This was locker room talk. I'm not proud of it. I apologize to my family. I apologize to the American people. Yes, I'm very embarrassed by it. And we should get on to much more important things and much bigger things.

Q: Are you saying that what you said on that bus 11 years ago--that you did not actually kiss women without consent or grope women without consent?

TRUMP: I have great respect for women. Nobody has more respect for women than I do.

Q: Have you ever done those things?

TRUMP: No, I have not.

CLINTON: What we all saw and heard was Donald talking about women, what he thinks about women, what he does to women. And he has said that the video doesn't represent who he is. But I think it's clear to anyone who heard it that it represents exactly who he is.
Source: Second 2016 Presidential Debate at WUSTL in St. Louis MO , Oct 9, 2016

Hillary and I agree on paid family leave
CLINTON: I want us to do more to support people who are struggling to balance family and work. I've heard from so many of you about the difficult choices you face and the stresses that you're under. So let's have paid family leave, earned sick days. Let's be sure we have affordable child care.

TRUMP: As far as child care is concerned and so many other things, I think Hillary and I agree on that. We probably disagree a little bit as to numbers and amounts and what we're going to do, but perhaps we'll be talking about that later. But we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States and, with it, firing all of their people. All you have to do is take a look at Carrier air conditioning in Indianapolis. They left -- fired 1,400 people. They're going to Mexico. So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this.
Source: First 2016 Presidential Debate at Hofstra University , Sep 26, 2016

Supports birth control without a prescription
Donald Trump says he believes women should be able to obtain birth control without a prescription. Speaking on an episode of "The Dr. Oz Show," the Republican nominee suggested that, for many women, obtaining a prescription can be challenging. "I would say it should not be prescription," he told the audience, adding that many women "just aren't in a position to go get a prescription."

The GOP's 2016 platform says it opposes the FDA's "endorsement of over-the-counter sales of powerful contraceptives without a physician's recommendation." The comment comes days after Trump unveiled a plan aimed at making childcare more affordable for women.

Trump has sometimes stumbled when it comes to reproductive health issues. During the Republican primary, he was criticized for saying that, if it the abortion were to be outlawed, women should be punished for having them. He later said that providers, not women, should be the ones who face penalties.
Source: Jill Colvin and David Sharp, Associated Press on SFGate.com , Sep 15, 2016

Women act feminine & needy, but inside, they are killers
Women desired him, Trump often said, yet he held them at a distance, suspicious of what he saw as their crafty, cunning antagonism. "Women have one of the great acts of all time," he wrote. "The smart ones act very feminine and needy, but inside they are real killers....I have seen women manipulate men with just a twitch of their eye--or perhaps another body part....There's nothing I love more than women, but they're really a lot different than portrayed. They are far worse than men, far more aggressive, and boy, can they be smart. Let's give credit where credit is due, and let's salute women for their tremendous power, which most men are afraid to admit they have."

As much power as women might wield, however, Trump rarely let the opportunity pass to proclaim his own virility. Asked for his view of Viagra, Trump boasted that he never needed such assistance. What he really needed, he said, was an "anti-Viagra, something with the opposite effect. I'm not bragging. I'm just lucky.
Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p.155 , Aug 23, 2016

Ex-wives sign confidentiality agreements and keep quiet
Despite the turbulence in their marriages, his former wives never disparaged Trump publicly after their divorces. Trump made sure of that. He had his wives sign confidentiality agreements, and he held the ultimate leverage: the kids.

Trump often said he was not the kind of father who spent much time hanging out or playing ball with his children, but when they were old enough to learn the business, they spent far more time with him, especially at the office. All three children from the marriage with Ivana would come to work by their father's side at the Trump Organization. All three told of difficult times with their father. During the divorce battle, Donald Jr. went a year without speaking to his father. But they came to admire him as a businessman and as a parent who loved them in his own way and deeply wanted them to work together with him.

How his ex-wives might describe the family's inner life remained uncertain, as Trump managed to hold their public comments in check.
Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p.168-9 , Aug 23, 2016

Federal tax breaks to support child care costs
[Ivanka's recent campaign] speech made clear that Donald Trump's daughter, Ivanka, has a significant microphone within the campaign. One of the biggest new ideas in Trump's economic plan--an expansion of federal support for child care costs--was a major plank in Ivanka's speech at the Republican National Convention.

Trump's plan, which would expand tax benefits available to Americans paying for child care, falls outside of traditional Republican Party thinking. But Ivanka made it a centerpiece of her July speech as she pitched her father as the right man to help working families get by. Trump's new proposal, which the campaign says would "exclude childcare expenses from taxation," clearly came from her, which Trump confirmed."I've been working on [this] with my daughter, Ivanka," he said. "She feels so strongly about this."

Polls show Trump lagging behind Clinton among women voters. Ivanka's influence and the specific child care proposal are both meant to address that gap.
Source: The Hill coverage of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 8, 2016

Happiest people have great families & God in their lives
The happiest people I know are those people who have great families and real values. I've seen it. I know it. People who have a loving spouse and have children they really love are happy people. Religion also plays a very large factor in happiness. People who have God in their lives receive a tremendous amount of joy and satisfaction from their faith.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p.128 , Nov 3, 2015

Stress importance of a strong family, & a culture of Life
Trump has over 7 million followers on social media. He frequently uses this platform to advocate for Conservative causes, Republican candidates and to educate the public on the failures of the Obama administration. Trump appears on "Fox and Friends" on Monday mornings & devotes much of his time to media interviews in order to promote a Free Market, the importance of a strong family, a culture of Life, a strong military and our country's sacred obligation to take care of our veterans and their families.
Source: 2016 presidential campaign website, DonaldJTrump.com , Jun 16, 2015

Everyone getting married should have a prenuptial agreement
I have seen many business deals in litigation--but there is nothing worse than a man and a woman who fight over their assets and everything else. You were in love with somebody, and now you are no longer in love. The hatred is intense, far more intense than it usually gets in a business transaction. You need a prenuptial agreement to protect yourself and your business interests.

Marriage is a contract unlike any other contract in life. It's a legally binding contract that knows nothing of love. If the love dies, all you have left is a resentful ex-spouse & the marriage certificate. There's nothing more terrible than an ex-spouse with a ten-ton axe to grind, and no agreement on common property. Always get a prenup. It's just too risky not to.

When I met Melania and we decided to get married, I said, "We're going to have the greatest marriage ever, but listen, just in case it doesn't work, sign on the dotted line." It's not exactly the most romantic thing to do, but you really, really need it.
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p. 31-2&260 , Sep 8, 2008

Too many hollow compliments are not healthy for kids
A new study found that today's college students are, in fact, more narcissistic and self- centered than ever before. Since birth, many of these youngsters were fed a steady stream of compliments on how wonderful and special they were. The "self-esteem movement" of the 80s and 90s became a national fad.

Too many hollow compliments are not healthy for kids. It is okay to let your children know they are special. It is a part of being a loving parent, but do not overdo it. To constantly lavish praise on your children for every little thing they do is too much. Do not be easy on them. Let your children work hard to gain your praise. They will value it more.

If you over-compliment a child, they start to believe they are entitled to success in life without even trying, but it is not true. When they grow up they will find out that the world is much more difficult than you led them to believe. Then, if they cannot get something right away, they quit. Quitting is a habit that is hard to break.
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p. 66-7 , Sep 8, 2008

I would rather live a married life than be single
I had a choice of staying single or getting married, and I chose to be married. I do not want to be single. I have a bad track record for being married, it is true, but I would rather live a married life than be single. That is because I met the right woman. I have learned something from my previous mistakes. I am determined to do much better in my marriage to Melania.

What surprises many people is that beautiful women love me. For the first season of The Apprentice one broadcast exec said, "To be successful, large numbers of women would have to watch, and why would women want to watch Donald Trump?" I said, "I have not done so badly with women." As it turned out, the biggest audience for The Apprentice by far is women.
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p.270 , Sep 8, 2008

Be cocky & confident & get all the women you want
The women I have dated over the years could have any man they want; they are the top models and the most beautiful women in the world. I have been able to date (screw) them all because I have something that many men do not have. I don't know what it is but women have always liked it. So guys, be cocky, confident, smart, and humorous and you will be able to get all the women you want.

We may live in houses in the suburbs but our minds and emotions are still only a short step out of the jungle. In primitive times, women clung to the strongest males for protection. High-status males displayed their prowess through their kick-ass attitudes. They did not give a crap about what other people in the tribe thought. That kind of attitude was and still is associated with the kind of men women find attractive. It may not be politically correct to say but who cares. It is common sense and it's true--and always will be.
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p.270-1 , Sep 8, 2008

My family is my motivation

    My eldest son, Don Jr., joined the Trump Organization in September 2001 and has already proven himself to be a valuable member of our team.
    Ivanka, my eldest daughter, is currently attending the Warton School.
    Eric, my youngest son, is at Georgetown University and doing well.
    I remain very close to my brother Robert and to my sisters, Maryanne and Elizabeth. All are thriving, successful, and productive.
    My parents, Fred and Mary, passed away in 1999 and 2000, respectively. The void they left will never be filled. But what each gave to me, by way of example, will remain with me every day of my life. 

I love my family. They are very much my motivation. They always have been, and they always will be. Am I a rich man? Yes, very rich. I also feel blessed to have some terrific friends and business associates.
Source: How to Get Rich, by Donald Trump, p.160 , Mar 23, 2004

I seem to bring out either the best or worst in women
I don't know why, but I seem to bring out either the best or worst in women. Even Katarina Witt, the great Olympic figure-skating champion, caused me some angst. Because I built and ran the Wollman Skating Rink in Central Park, I became something of a factor in the ice-skating business. One day I received a phone call from Katarina asking if she could come to my office to say hello. Everything went well; Katarina invited me to see her opening-night performance at Madison Square Garden.

Katarina asked me what I thought of the evening. I told her that, while I liked her skating, I thought the music she skated to was horrible. "I know you want to be artistic," I said, "but you really ought to choose music that's more mainstream, something people will enjoy." Katarina was not pleased with my comments and I could see at a glance that steely German temperament. After that, every article written about Katarina Witt included claims that I had asked her out and she had turned me down.
Source: The Art of the Comeback, by Donald Trump, p.126-7 , Oct 27, 1997 
