 We can't let China run the Panama Canal
Q: Why is China allowed to conduct imperialism in our hemisphere?

TRUMP: Yeah, and it's far beyond Cuba. We built a thing called the Panama Canal. We lost 35,000 people to the mosquito, malaria. The Panama Canal was such an incredible engineering marvel. We sold it under Jimmy Carter. We sold it to Panama for $1. The following day they quadrupled the amount of money that ships had to pay to get across. It's one of the most profitable things. We gave it away for $1. China now controls it. They actually control the Panama Canal. They run it, they control it, and we shouldn't let that happen. We can't let China be in Cuba. They'll get out. If I'm president, they'll get out. Because I had a very good relationship with President Xi. He respected this country. He respected me and he'll get out. We can't let them run the Panama Canal. We built the Panama Canal. Should have never been given to Panama. We should have had it, but we gave it for $1. Think of it.
Source: Tucker on X interview opposite 2023 GOP debate in Milwaukee , Aug 23, 2023

FactCheck: US never had right to sell Panama Canal
Trump said in his interview, "We built a thing called the Panama Canal. Jimmy Carter sold it to Panama for $1. China now controls it." Is all that true?

FactCheck by U-S-History.com: China is the primary source of products going through the Colon Free Trade Zone and its increasing presence around the Canal has made the waterway a flashpoint for US-China competition. China's influence in Panama has only grown since 2017 when then-president Varela severed diplomatic ties with Taiwan and recognized China.

[On the "sale" of the Canal to Panama]: In 1903, the U.S. offered to pay Colombia the sum of $10 million plus an annual payment of $250,000 for a perpetual lease. The U.S. Senate ratified the Treaty, but Colombia Senate defeated it. President Teddy Roosevelt [then recognized a rebellion creating] independent Panama, and gave the new government the same deal. [Conclusion: The U.S. never "owned" the Panama Canal and Pres. Carter's Panama treaty acknowledged that].
Source: Fox News 2023 Republican primary debate in Milwaukee , Aug 23, 2023

Endorses autocratic ruler of Hungary, Viktor Orban
The former president offered a full-throated endorsement for longtime Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, a polarizing figure in Europe whom Trump advisers once referred to as "Trump before Trump." Civil liberties groups routinely give Hungary under Mr. Orban low marks for the state of democracy and minority rights in the country.

Mr. Orban's many critics say he has become increasingly authoritarian and intolerant of dissent in his 12 years in power, routinely clashing with European Union leaders over issues such as immigration, gay rights and national sovereignty.

"Viktor Orban of Hungary truly loves his country and wants safety for his people," Mr. Trump said in a statement through his Save America PAC. Mr. Orban "has done a powerful and wonderful job in protecting Hungary, stopping illegal immigration, creating jobs, trade, and should be allowed to continue to do so in the upcoming election," Mr. Trump wrote. "He has my Complete support and Endorsement for reelection as Prime Minister!"
Source: Washington Times on endorsement of Hungarian P.M. , Jan 3, 2022

We rebuilt military; America stronger than ever
I am thrilled to report to you tonight that our economy is the best it has ever been. Our military is completely rebuilt, with its power being unmatched anywhere in the world--and it is not even close. Our borders are secure. Our families are flourishing. Our values are renewed. Our pride is restored. And for all these reasons, I say to the people of our great country, and to the Members of Congress before me: The State of our Union is stronger than ever before!
Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

South Asia policy focused on Afghanistan not India
In Nov. 2017, Trump sat down with Indian Prime Minister Modi. Back at the White House, Trump was known to have affected an Indian accent to imitate Modi, a sign of disrespect for the Prime Minister.

As with most foreign leader meetings, Trump had been briefed but didn't seem to have retained the material and instead tried to wing it. Modi tried to focus on the threats India faced from Afghanistan, China, and Pakistan. His mention of Afghanistan led Trump off on a lengthy tangent about how stupid it had been for the US to have maintained its military presence in Afghanistan.

When Modi mentioned his concerns about China's aggressions in the region, Trump revealed a stunning ignorance about geography. "It's not like you've got China on your border", seeming to dismiss the threat to India.

Each time Modi tried to get Trump to engage on the substance of US-India relations, the American president veered off on another non sequitur trade deficiencies and endless war in Afghanistan.
Source: A Very Stable Genius, by P.Rucker & C.Leonnig, p.163-4 , Jan 21, 2020

Russia Hoax: I have been far tougher on Russia than Obama
The FBI has great and honorable people, but the leadership was inept and corrupt. I would think that you would personally be appalled by these revelations, because in your press conference the day you announced impeachment, you tied the impeachment effort directly to the completely discredited Russia Hoax, declaring twice that "all roads lead to Putin," when you know that is an abject lie. I have been far tougher on Russia than President Obama ever even thought to be.
Source: Letter to House Speaker from President on impeaching Trump , Dec 17, 2019

Trump "an utterly disloyal ally," odious to European leaders
Suzanne Nossel, a former senior foreign-policy advisor, said, "Here, we have a controversy that directly implicated international relations and the legitimacy of U.S. diplomacy worldwide. I think a lot of the world is holding their breath to see whether and how Trump can be taken out of office. If not, the realignments that are already in progress will be cemented, with the U.S. less trusted, less relied upon and less capable of leading for the foreseeable future."

Danielle Pletka, an expert on international relations at the American Enterprise Institute, added, Trump "earned" the trans-Atlantic hostility that he now faces in international settings. "He has been an utterly disloyal ally, and he has been odious toward a whole series of European leaders," she said.
Source: Foreign Policy magazine on impeaching Trump , Dec 11, 2019

Protect human rights in Hong Kong against China
China reacted furiously to President Donald Trump's signing of two bills on Hong Kong human rights and said the US will bear the unspecified consequences. A foreign ministry statement repeated heated condemnations of the laws and said China will counteract. It said all the people of Hong Kong & China oppose the move.

Trump signed the bills, which were approved by near unanimous consent in the House and Senate, even as he expressed some concerns about complicating the effort to work out a trade deal with China. "I signed these bills out of respect for President Xi, China, and the people of Hong Kong," Trump said. "They are being enacted in the hope that Leaders and Representatives of China & Hong Kong will be able to amicably settle their differences leading to long term peace & prosperity for all."

"We have to stand with Hong Kong," Trump said in an interview on "Fox & Friends." He continued: "But I'm also standing with President Xi. He's a friend of mine. He's an incredible guy.
Source: Idaho Statesman coverage of Trump Cabinet , Nov 27, 2019

Postpone meeting with Denmark if no Greenland discussion
Months before President Donald Trump expressed an interest in buying Greenland, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR) said he suggested the idea to the President and met with the Danish ambassador to propose the sale of the large land mass to the U.S.

Greenland, owned by the European nation of Denmark, has a population of just over 56,000 on the 836,300 square mile island. The primary U.S. military base on Greenland is Thule Air Base, home to the 21st Space Wing's global network of sensors providing missile warning to NORAD's Air Force Space Command.

However, the deal is not likely to soon happen. Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen called the idea "absurd." Trump responded by canceling a planned state visit to Denmark.

"Denmark is a very special country with incredible people, but based on Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen's comments, that she would have no interest in discussing the purchase of Greenland, I will be postponing our meeting scheduled in two weeks for another time," Trump tweeted.
Source: TalkBusiness.net on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Aug 21, 2019

Buying Greenland is strategically interesting
Amid reported interest for buying Greenland, Trump said, "Denmark essentially owns it. We're very good allies with Denmark. We protect Denmark like we protect large portions of the world." Trump added, "Strategically, it's interesting, and we'd be interested, but we'll talk to them a little bit. It's not number one on the burner." Trump has reportedly mulled attempting to buy the largest island in the world that is home to more than 50,000 people from Denmark, though no official inquiries have been made yet.

Trump compared buying the territory from Denmark to a "large real estate deal." He said, "A lot of things could be done. It's hurting Denmark very badly because they're losing almost $700 million a year carrying it. So they carry it at a great loss. And strategically for the United States, it would be nice."

Greenland's foreign minister responded to the reports saying the territory is "open for business, but we're not for sale." The U.S. does currently have an airbase on the island.
Source: The Hill e-zine on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Aug 18, 2019

Treat foes of US worse than they could ever imagine
We declined to certify the terrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It was a horrible deal. Whoever heard you give $150 billion to a nation that has no respect for you whatsoever? They're saying death to America. If somebody said death to America, while I'm signing an agreement, I say what's going on, folks? I'm not signing. People that treat us well, we treat them well. People that treat us badly, we treat them much worse than they could ever imagine. That's the way it has to be.
Source: Vox.com blog, "Trump at CPAC 2018" , Feb 23, 2018

We're going to protect Christianity abroad; it's under siege
Trump spoke on his "Make America Great Again" campaign themes, but also added a new line: "We're going to protect Christianity. And I can say that. I don't have to be politically correct." He mentioned, "what's going on throughout the world"--and referred to "Syria, where if you're Christian, they're chopping off heads. Christianity, it's under siege."
Source: The Faith of Donald J. Trump, by Brody & Lamb, p. 180 , Feb 3, 2018

Defend our American legacy & seize our glorious destiny
We need your incredible spirit on the Fourth of July. We are having, in Washington, D.C., a great tribute to America. I hope you can all come. Fourth of July--keep it open. We want to bring millions of people into the city, and we want people to come who love our country. Those are the people we want. The Fourth of July. A salute to America. Now is the time to embrace the promise of our history. Now is the time to defend our American legacy. And now is the time to seize our glorious destiny.
Source: Speech at the 2019 CPAC Convention , Mar 2, 2017

U.S. has become dumping ground for everybody else's problems
While the Trump and Sanders campaigns both represent insurgencies against party elites, they represent insurgencies aimed at taking America in radically different directions. One way of understanding those different directions is through American exceptionalism. Sanders voters want to make America more like the rest of the world. Trump voters want to keep America a nation apart.

American exceptionalism today generally denotes Americans' peculiar faith in God, flag, and free market--the Sanders campaign represents an assault on all three [while Trump supports all three].

Trump's entire campaign is built around the idea that foreign influences are infecting the United States. "The U.S.," he declared upon announcing his presidential campaign, "has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems."

Trump's supporters like the fact that he's rich, blunt, and hasn't spent his life in politics. But his pledges to keep the rest of the world at bay are core to his appeal.
Source: The Atlantic magazine, "War Over American Exceptionalism" , Feb 11, 2016

Ignore career diplomats who insist on nuance
The career diplomats who got us into many foreign policy messes say I have no experience in foreign policy. They think that successful diplomacy requires years of experience and an understanding of all the nuances that have been carefully considered before reaching a conclusion. Only then do these pin-striped bureaucrats CONSIDER taking action.

Look at the state of the world right now. It's a terrible mess, and that's putting it kindly. There has never been a more dangerous time. The so-called insiders within the Washington ruling class are the people who got us into trouble. So why should we continue to pay attention to them?

Here's what I know--what we are doing now isn't working. And years ago, when I was just starting out in business, I figured out a pretty simple approach that has always worked well for me: "When you're digging yourself deeper and deeper into a hole, stop digging."
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 31-2 , Nov 3, 2015

Offered himself as Cold War nuclear-arms-treaty negotiator
[In the 1980s], flying from place to place in his Trump helicopter and Trump jet, he offered opinions on everything from politics to sex, and continually declared himself to be superior in every way. He frequently referred to the many people who thought he should run for president and sometimes acted as if he were a real candidate.

During one especially tense Cold War moment, he even offered himself to the world as a nuclear-arms-treaty negotiator. His reasoning? A man who can make high-end real estate deals should be able to bring the United States and the Soviet Union into agreement.
Source: Never Enough, by Michael D`Antonio, p. 10 , Sep 22, 2015

When you love America, you protect it with no apologies
I love America. And when you love something, you protect it passionately--fiercely, even. We are the greatest country the world has ever known. I make no apologies for this country, my pride in it, or my desire to see us become strong and rich again. After all, wealth funds our freedom. But for too long we've been pushed around, used by other countries, and ill-served by politicians in Washington who measure their success by how rapidly they can expand the federal debt, and your tax burden, with their favorite government programs.

American can do better. I think we deserve the best. That's why I decided to write this book. The decisions we face are too monumental, too consequential, to just let slide. I have answers for the problems that confront us. I know how to make American rich again.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 7 , Dec 5, 2011

Things change; empires come and go
A lot of life is about survival of the fittest and adaption, as Darwin pointed out. It's not all there is, but it's an indication of how the world has evolved in historical terms. We've seen many empires come and go--the Roman Empire, the Ottoman Empire- there have always been surges of power. Sometimes they last for centuries. Even so, some of us have never learned of them as of today. In other words, things change. We have to keep up with the changes and move forward.
Source: Think Like a Champion, by Donald Trump, p. 23-4 , Apr 27, 2010

Use tough negotiators instead of naive academic people
I could give you the names of ten to twenty of the greatest deal- makers in the world who live in this country. These great negotiators could go up against China or Iran and work out a fabulous deal for the United States. Instead we have well- meaning but na‹ve academic people negotiating, who do not know what they are doing in tough real- life situations. They have never faced tough, winner- take- all, fight- to- the- death negotiations against ruthless and vicious adversaries. If the government used our best negotiators, it would solve a lot of our problems and the United States would come out on top. For one thing, we have all the cards: we have the strongest military and the strongest economy on Earth, or at least we had.

We would be negotiating from strength. We would win if we would just sit down and negotiate--but using our best people!
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p.152-3 , Sep 8, 2008

Persuasion, not power, is diplomacy at its best
I believe that the key to striking a deal is persuasion, not power. Persuasion is diplomacy at its best-the ability to convince people to accept your ideas. You don't want to force people to accept your ideas. That's a recipe for disaster. Instead, you want them to think that the decision was theirs, which gives them a greater sense of power and control. Your objectives should be to make your adversaries feel like they're your partners, not your victims. Present your ideas in a way that will not intimidate your adversaries or make them feel that they are being forced to surrender. In successful negotiations, all parties should feel satisfied with the outcome.
Source: Trump 101, by Donald Trump, p. 60 , Oct 20, 2006

Post-Cold War: switch from chess player to dealmaker
In the modern world you can’t very easily draw up a simple, general foreign policy. I was busy making deals during the last decade of the cold war. Now the game has changed. The day of the chess player is over. Foreign policy has to be put in the hands of a dealmaker.

Two dealmakers have served as president-one was Franklin Roosevelt, who got us through WWII, and the other was Richard Nixon, who forced the Russians to the bargaining table to achieve the first meaningful reductions in nuclear arms.

A dealmaker can keep many balls in the air, weigh the competing interests of other nations, and above all, constantly put America’s best interests first. The dealmaker knows when to be tough and when to back off. He knows when to bluff and he knows when to threaten, understanding that you threaten only when prepared to carry out the threat. The dealmaker is cunning, secretive, focused, and never settles for less than he wants. It’s been a long time since America had a president like that.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.111-12 , Jul 2, 2000

Donald Trump on Alliances
Hungary's Viktor Orban is a great leader; he's very strong
There's a great leader, in my opinion, is very strong. Some people say it's terrible to say that, but he is, Viktor Orban. He's the Prime Minister of Hungary. And they asked him, "What would you do? There are wars all over the world right now." He said, "What I do is make sure the American people vote for Donald Trump for president, because when he was president, China feared him."

Fact Check by Human Rights Watch, 8/4/22: Viktor Orban has become the darling of certain political circles in the US. Since 2012, Orban hijacked public institutions, attacked the independence of courts, and left almost no independent media standing. He has attacked the rights of LGBT and transgender people, and banned same-sex unions. He encouraged ruthless and rights-abusing treatment of migrants and refugees and the criminalization of those who help them. Orban's adherence to the racist "great replacement" theory risks emboldening white supremacists.
Source: HRW FactCheck on Fox news Town Hall 2024 pre-Iowa caucus , Jan 10, 2024

Democracy is under threat next door in Canada
If the radical Democrats truly want to fight for democracy, they should start with the democracy under threat next-door, a place called Canada. The tyranny in Canada in recent weeks should shock and dismay people all over the world. In an advanced western democracy, the peaceful movement of patriotic truckers, workers and families protesting for their basic rights and liberties has been voted down. We stand with the truckers and the Canadian people in their noble quest to reclaim their freedom.
Source: Speech at the 2022 CPAC Conference in Orlando FL , Feb 26, 2022

Reject ideology of globalism; embrace doctrine of patriotism
President Donald Trump blamed Iranian leaders for sowing "chaos, death and destruction" in a steely speech to the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday that heavily emphasized the president's support of national sovereignty over globalism.

Touting his meeting this year with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and blasting Iran for spreading mayhem in the Middle East, Trump offered an impassioned defense of a foreign policy doctrine he said would allow countries to reject "global governance."

"We reject the ideology of globalism, and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism," Trump said. "We will never surrender America's sovereignty to an unelected, unaccountable, global bureaucracy."

Trump's remarks were buffeted by warnings from other world leaders that America's pullback from the international institutions was ill-conceived and even dangerous. "Do not accept the erosion of multilateralism. Don't accept our history unraveling," the President of France said.
Source: USA Today on Trump Administration UN Speech , Sep 25, 2018

Foreign aid only for allies with shared values
Lobbing criticism at a bevy of international institutions, Trump called the U.N. human rights council "a grave embarrassment to this institution" and said the International Criminal Court "has no jurisdiction, no legitimacy and no authority." He touted some of his most divisive foreign policy decisions, including his crackdown on immigration and his recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.

The "America first" remarks drew on a similar speech he delivered at the United Nations last year but included more detailed examples of how that vision informs his policies on trade, immigration and the world's hot spots.

Trump suggested he would sharply curtail U.S. foreign aid, saying he ordered a review of whether countries that receive American assistance are allies with shared values. "We are only going to give foreign aid to those who respect us and, frankly, are our friends," Trump said. "And we expect other countries to pay their fair share for the cost of their defense."
Source: USA Today on Trump Administration UN Speech , Sep 25, 2018

European Union is a foe in trade, & in lack of NATO payments
Q: Who is your biggest competitor, your biggest foe globally right now?

TRUMP: Well, I think we have a lot of foes. I think the European Union is a foe, what they do to us in trade. Now, you wouldn't think of the European Union, but they're a foe. Russia is a foe in certain respects. China is a foe economically, certainly. They're a foe. But that doesn't mean they're bad. It means that they're competitors. They want to do well, and we want to do well. And we're starting to do well.

Q: A lot of people might be surprised to hear you list the E.U. as a foe before China and Russia.

TRUMP: No, I look at them all. Look, E.U. is very difficult, I want to tell you. Don't forget, both of my parents were born in E.U. sectors, OK? I mean, my mother was Scotland. My father, Germany. And, you know, I love those countries. I respect the leaders of those countries. But, in a trade sense, they have really taken advantage of us, & many of those countries are in NATO. And they weren't paying their bills.
Source: CBS Face the Nation 2018 interviews of 2020 hopefuls , Jul 15, 2018

I said it was obsolete, but NATO is no longer obsolete
As a candidate, President Trump disparaged NATO as a musty relic of old thinking, an alliance focused on long-gone adversaries rather than new-era threats, a burden that drained American resources on behalf of ungrateful partners. In a word: "obsolete."

That was then. After 82 days in office, Trump officially pronounced NATO rehabilitated, taking credit for transforming it into a modern, cost-sharing, terrorism-fighting pillar of American and European security. "I said it was obsolete," the president noted as he hosted NATO's secretary general. "It's no longer obsolete."

Never mind that the alliance has changed very little if at all in the last three months, and that whatever modest changes have been made were in train long before Trump entered the White House. After weeks of being lobbied, cajoled and educated by the leaders of Britain and Germany, not to mention "my generals," as he likes to call his national security team, Trump has found fresh virtue in a venerable organization.
Source: New York Times on Trump Administration promises , Apr 13, 2017

NATO: apply new solutions to face new circumstances
Trump's about-face in supporting NATO was only part of a day of flip flops: the president determined that China is not a currency manipulator after all, and embraced the Ex-Im Bank that he once called unnecessary. Most striking, he pivoted on Russia, lashing it for supporting rogue nations after years of praising Pres. Vladimir Putin.

The Russia reversal and the NATO turnabout were inherently linked, of course. As Russia appears more ominous, NATO seems more necessary. But the shift in attitude also offered one of the starkest examples yet of Trump's evolving views: "We must not be trapped by the tired thinking that so many have, but apply new solutions to face new circumstances throughout the world," Trump said at his news conference with the NATO secretary general.

Trump's campaign criticism of NATO stunned many at home and abroad, especially when he suggested conditioning America's commitment to defend its treaty allies on whether they had met their financial obligations.
Source: New York Times on Trump Administration promises , Apr 13, 2017

Other countries should follow UK in leaving EU
In comments that are likely to create fresh tensions with the United States' closest European allies, President-elect Donald J. Trump said other European nations would probably follow Britain's lead by leaving the European Union.

Trump said that Britain's decision to leave the European Union would "end up being a great thing" and predicted that other countries would follow. "People, countries want their own identity, and the U.K. wanted its own identity," he said.

Diplomats said they had heard him sound off during the campaign. But with the inauguration less than a week away, there is a growing realization in European capitals that Trump's acerbic criticism of NATO and the European Union was not just an attempt to win votes.
Source: New York Times on Trump Administration promises , Jan 15, 2017

NATO is obsolete; it doesn't fight terrorism
In an interview published this week, President-elect Donald J. Trump described NATO as "obsolete." Trump has made similar comments before. But the fact that he made them in a joint interview with two European publications--The Times of London and Bild, a German newspaper--and did so days before assuming the presidency alarmed European diplomats.

"I took such heat when I said NATO was obsolete," Mr. Trump said. "It's obsolete because it wasn't taking care of terror. I took a lot of heat for two days. And then they started saying, 'Trump is right.'"

During his hourlong interview with the European publications at Trump Tower in Manhattan, Trump sought to temper some of his criticism of NATO by noting that the alliance "is very important to me." Still, his characterization of it as divorced from the fight against terrorism was challenged by NATO experts, who noted that the alliance had joined the US in Afghanistan.
Source: New York Times on Trump Administration promises , Jan 15, 2017

Don't surrender to the false song of globalism
No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.

Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.

I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests. I will be America's greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.
Source: Foreign policy speech at Center for the National Interest , Apr 27, 2016

Reimbursement for US military bases in rich countries abroad
As for nations that host US. military bases, Trump said he would charge those governments for the American presence. "I'm going to renegotiate some of our military costs because we protect South Korea. We protect Germany. We protect some of the wealthies countries in the world, Saudi Arabia. We protect everybody and we don't get reimbursement. We lose on everything, so we're going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many other deals that's going to get the cost down for running our country very significantly."

Trump then got into a specific example: Saudi Arabia, one of the more important US allies in the Middle East. Saudis "make a billion dollars a day. We protect them. So we need help. We are losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 trillion," he said.

Walking back trade deals and agreements that allow the US military to operate overseas is easier said than done. But Trump has tapped into a powerful anti-Washington populist sentiment.
Source: Foreign Policy Magazine on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Sep 28, 2015

Support NATO, but it's not us against Russia
Q: You wrote, "Pulling back from Europe would save this country millions of dollars annually. The cost of stationing NATO troops in Europe is enormous. And these are clearly funds that can be put to better use." Would you want to end the NATO alliance completely?

TRUMP: I'm a little concerned about NATO from this standpoint. Take Ukraine. We're leading Ukraine. Where's Germany? Where are the countries of Europe leading? I don't mind helping them. Why isn't Germany leading this charge? Why is the United States? I mean, we're like the policemen of the world. And why are we leading the charge in Ukraine?

Q: So you wouldn't allow Ukraine into NATO?

TRUMP: I would not care that much. Whether it goes in or doesn't go in, I wouldn't care. Look, I would support NATO.

Q: It sounds like you're not a fan of NATO

TRUMP: I'm a fan of fairness. I'm a fan of common sense. I'm certainly not a fan of us being against Russia. Why are we always at the forefront of everything?
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interview, on Foreign Influences , Aug 17, 2015

Americans need to be more aware of what's going on abroad
You can't wear a blindfold in business. A regular part of your day should be devoted to expanding your horizons.

We live in a big world, and it is important for us to be aware of cultures other than our own. I have always lived in the United States, but I make an effort to be informed about other cultures. That's easy to do in New York City, the most diverse and exciting place on earth.

Someone who had been living abroad for a few years told me, upon returning home, that a frequent comment about Americans is that you always know exactly where we're coming from. The flip side is this is that we rarely know where anyone else is coming from. We're very much up to snuff about our own national events, but we are less aware of what's happening in other countries. All of us need to pay more attention to events outside of our own realm We are connected to each other in so many ways--politically, commercially, socially.
Source: How to Get Rich, by Donald Trump, p. 33 , Mar 23, 2004

Donald Trump on Mideast
Unite moderate Arab countries to isolate & contain Iran
In May 2017, I joined the president on his first foreign trip, with stops in Saudi Arabia, Israel, & Brussels for a NATO meeting; Rome to visit the Vatican; and Sicily for the G7. The trip was important because it was the president's first trip abroad, and in Saudi Arabia he planned to announce a new strategy for the Middle East to focus less on democracy and more on nation building and uniting Arab countries like Saudi Arabia and Egypt in the US-led coalition to isolate and contain Iran, our most dangerous adversary in the region. The president was set to give a major speech and open the new Global Center to combat extremism and terrorism. Leaders from 55 Muslim countries attended the meeting in Riyadh. This was the first such gathering and was a direct result of the leadership of the Trump administration. On the first day of the visit Trump also signed an investment deal with the Saudis that promised to bring $110 billion into the United States.
Source: Speaking for Myself, by Sarah Huckabee Sanders, p. 79 , Sep 8, 2020

Coronavirus: We can help Iran, all they have to do is ask
In addition to the existing ban on travel by most Iranian nationals, we're banning the travel of anyone who has been to Iran in the last 14 days. They're having a very big outbreak. And I say here and now, if we can help the Iranians--we're doing certain things for them now--and if we can help the Iranians with this problem, we are certainly willing to do so. We would love to be able to help them. And all they have to do is ask. We will have great professionals over there.
Source: Remarks by President Trump at the 2020 CPAC Conference , Feb 29, 2020

Not looking for war, but Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon
Q: Do you want to do a separate deal with Iran? Or do you want to get everybody involved in the same deal?

TRUMP: It doesn't matter to me. Here's what I want, anything that gets you to the result. They cannot have a nuclear weapon. It's not about the straits. You know, a lot of people covered it incorrectly. They're never mentioned. They cannot have a nuclear weapon. They'd use it. And they're not going to have a nuclear weapon. And it's not about the oil. I'm not looking for war and if there is, it'll be obliteration like you've never seen before. But I'm not looking to do that. But you can't have a nuclear weapon. You want to talk? Good. Otherwise you can have a bad economy for the next three years.
Source: Meet the Press 2019 interview series , Jun 23, 2019

Recognize 1967 Israel's annexation of Golan Heights
Senior Israeli officials stated that the Trump administration is planning to formally recognise Israel's authority over the occupied Golan Heights after decades of non-recognition by the US and others. [Trump issued a formal proclamation on March 25]. The Golan Heights were captured by Israel during the Six Day War in 1967 from the Syrian army, which used the strategic high ground overlooking Galilee to launch attacks on Israeli territory. Since then, the area has been recognised as highly strategic in maintaining Israel's dominance over the Syrian border.

Israel administered the Heights through military law until 1981, in the same way in which it administered the West Bank and Gaza Strip, before the Menachem Begin government directly applied Israeli law and effectively annexed the territory to the Israeli state.
Source: Middle East Monitor on Trump Cabinet, "Golan Heights" , Mar 21, 2019

FactCheck: Yes, Senate approved US Embassy in Jerusalem
TRUMP: Last month, I took an action endorsed unanimously by the Senate just months before: I recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.

OnTheIssues Fact Check: Is that true? The United States Senate unanimously supported declaring Jerusalem the capital of Israel? Despite the controversy--and possible war with the Palestinians--that such a declaration could cause? Yes, we checked; the Senate voted 90-0-10 (unanimous with ten abstentions or absences). The resolution said, "June 2017 marks the 50th anniversary of the Six Day War and the reunification of the city of Jerusalem. The Senate reaffirms the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995 as United States law, and calls upon the President and all United States officials to abide by its provisions." The 1995 law calls for moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, including a progress report every 6 months. President Trump is now implementing the 1995 law, 23 years later and 46 progress report due dates later.
Source: OnTheIssues Fact-Check on 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

$350B of American arms to Saudis: jobs, jobs, jobs
On the empty roads of Riyadh, the presidential motorcade passed billboards with pictures of Trump and the Saudi King with the legend TOGETHER WE PREVAIL.

The Saudis would immediately buy $110 billion's worth of American arms, and a total of $350 billion over ten years. "Hundreds of billions of dollars of investments into the United States and jobs, jobs, jobs," declared the president. Plus, the Americans and the Saudis would together "counter violent extremist messaging, disrupt financing of terrorism, and advance defense cooperation." And they would establish a center in Riyadh to fight extremism.

It was, in dramatic ways, a shift in foreign policy attitude and strategy--and its effects were almost immediate. The president, ignoring, if not defying foreign policy advice, gave a nod to the Saudis' plan to bully Qatar. Trump's view was that Qatar was providing financial support to terror groups--pay no attention to a similar Saudi history.
Source: Fire and Fury, by Michael Wolff, p.230-1 , Jan 5, 2018

Jerusalem is Israel's capital but Palestinian capital open
Q: The violence so many predicted was likely to occur following the unilateral decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital continued for a fifth straight day, as demonstrators marched on the U.S. embassies. In the Palestinian territories, protesters clashed with security forces at Israeli checkpoints. A barrage of criticism in Europe came this week too, from some of America's closest allies. Here is President Trump's reasoning:

(BEGIN VIDEO) TRUMP: This is a long, overdue step to advance the peace process and to work towards a lasting agreement. (END VIDEO)

Q: You suggest that despite President Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital, and move the embassy there, that the final status of East Jerusalem as the capital of the Palestinian state is still up for negotiation?

Ambassador Nikki HALEY: The president did not to talk about borders. He strongly believes that those final status issues should be decided between the Palestinians and the Israelis.
Source: Fox News Sunday 2017 interviews of 2020 hopefuls , Dec 10, 2017

Recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital
Trump announced his decision to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, fulfilling a promise he made during his presidential campaign. Former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush had made the same promises during their campaigns, but once in office, they did not carry through with the move, citing its potential negative impact on Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.

Trump drew warnings from Middle Eastern and European leaders that overturning the United States' long-standing policy would further complicate peace negotiations.

The internationally unsettled status of Jerusalem and its central importance to Jews, Muslims and Christians explains why, while recognizing the state of Israel, no nation has its embassy in the holy city.
Source: Catholic News Service, "Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel" , Dec 6, 2017

Unbreakable alliance with the state of Israel
I have also imposed new sanctions on entities and individuals who support Iran's ballistic missile program, and reaffirmed our unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel.

Finally, I have kept my promise to appoint a Justice to the United States Supreme Court--from my list of 20 judges--who will defend our Constitution. I am honored to have Maureen Scalia with us in the gallery tonight. Her late, great husband, Antonin Scalia, will forever be a symbol of American justice. To fill his seat, we have chosen Judge Neil Gorsuch, a man of incredible skill, and deep devotion to the law. He was confirmed unanimously to the Court of Appeals, and I am asking the Senate to swiftly approve his nomination.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

Unite civilized world against radical Islamic terrorism
We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to follow. We will reinforce old alliances and form new ones--and unite the civilized world against Radical Islamic Terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the Earth.

At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America, and through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other. When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice. The Bible tells us, "how good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity." We must speak our minds openly, debate our disagreements honestly, but always pursue solidarity. When America is united, America is totally unstoppable.

We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action--constantly complaining but never doing anything about it. The time for empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action.
Source: 2017 Trump Inaugural address at presidential Inauguration , Jan 20, 2017

Supports construction of Israeli settlements in West Bank
President-elect Donald Trump publicly pressured President Obama to veto a United Nations resolution critical of Israel. Trump called on the president to use the US veto in the UN Security Council to block the Arab-sponsored resolution, which condemned the "construction and expansion" of Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem. The Obama administration, which vetoed a similar resolution in 2011, had withheld judgment over the latest measure.

Trump amplified his position by posting the statement on Facebook and Twitter as well: "The resolution being considered at the United Nations Security Council regarding Israel should be vetoed." His words closely echoed the positions expressed by Israeli leaders, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has treated the impending UN vote as a crisis, posting on his own Twitter account a message urging Obama to veto what he called the "anti-Israel" resolution. Egypt, who drafted the resolution, withdrew it afterwards.
Source: NY Times on Twitter posting: 2016 Trump transition promises , Dec 22, 2016

Treating Israel like a second-class citizen will end
Q: The United States should help defend Israel from attack by its enemies.

Trump: "When I become president, the days of treating Israel like a second-class citizen will end on day one," he said, to applause. "I will meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. I have known him for many years and we'll be able to work closely together to help bring stability and peace to Israel and to the entire region." American tycoon Donald Trump criticized the White House's treatment of Israel, saying, "There has never been a greater enemy to Israel than Barack Obama."

Clinton: In September 2010, while meeting with Netanyahu, Clinton said the US has an obligation to do all it can to "protect and defend the State of Israel and provide security to the Israeli people." She condemned Palestinian terrorism and advocated for Israel's right to defend itself.

Stein: Has proposed slashing the $4 billion annual military aid package to Israel, and would press for a peace deal with the Palestinians.
Source: 2016 AFA Action iVoterGuide on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Nov 8, 2016

At AIPAC: railed against Palestinians' demonization of Jews
Thousands of Jewish activists gathered for Trump's long-awaited speech to AIPAC on his approach to the Israeli-Palestinian stalemate. Dozens of rabbis and others had announced plans to boycott the event, both because Trump had pledged to be "neutral" in talks between Israel and the Palestinians. Trump said he was best-positioned to get a Middle East peace deal because he's a negotiator, "like you folks."

This time, he was squarely on Israel's side. He railed against the Palestinians' demonization of Jews. He reminded the crowd that he'd lent his personal jet to New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani when he visited Israel weeks after the 9/11 attacks and that he'd been grand marshal of the Israel Parade in New York in 2004, at the height of violence in the Gaza Strip. He made sure everyone noted that Ivanka would soon give birth to a "beautiful Jewish baby."
Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p. 13 , Aug 23, 2016

FactCheck: Yes, nuke deal sent planeloads of cash to Iran
Trump asserted that "Iran--we gave them $1.7 billion in cash. I mean, cash. Bundles of cash as big as this stage." Is that true? We dug up the facts from a CNN article:

"The Obama administration secretly arranged a plane delivery of $400 million in cash on the same day Iran released four American prisoners and formally implemented the nuclear deal. The money was flown into Iran on wooden pallets stacked with Swiss francs, euros and other currencies as the first installment of a $1.7 billion settlement resolving claims at an international tribunal at The Hague over a failed arms deal under the time of the Shah.

The $400 million was Iran's to start with, placed into a US-based trust fund to support American military equipment purchases in the 1970s. When the Shah was ousted by a 1979 popular uprising, the US froze the trust fund. Iran has been fighting for a return of the funds--plus $1.3 billion in interest--through international courts since 1981."
Source: CNN Fact-Check coverage of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 3, 2016

Don't take sides with Israel, so we can lead negotiations
Q: You said about the ongoing conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians -- "Let me be sort of a neutral guy. I don't want to say whose fault it is; I don't think it helps." How do you remain neutral when the U.S. considers Israel to be America's closest ally in the Middle East?

TRUMP: President Obama has treated Israel horribly. I have very close ties to Israel. I've received the Tree of Life Award and many of the greatest awards given by Israel. As president, however, there's nothing that I would rather do to bring peace to Israel and its neighbors generally. And I think it serves no purpose to say that you have a good guy and a bad guy. Now, I may not be successful in doing it. It's probably the toughest negotiation anywhere in the world of any kind. But it doesn't help if I start saying, "I am very pro-Israel." It doesn't do any good to start demeaning the neighbors, because I would love to do something with regard to negotiating peace, finally, for Israel and for their neighbors.
Source: 2016 CNN-Telemundo Republican debate on eve of Texas primary , Feb 25, 2016

I could negotiate a deal with Israel and Palestinians
RUBIO: He thinks a Palestine [and Israeli settlement] is a real estate deal. The Palestinians are not a real estate deal, Donald.

TRUMP: A deal is a deal. Let me tell you that. I learned a long time ago.

RUBIO: A deal is not a deal when you're dealing with terrorists. Have you ever negotiated with terrorists?

TRUMP: I'm a negotiator. I've done very well over the years through negotiation. It's very important that we do that. In all fairness, Marco is not a negotiator. I watched him melt down and I'll tell you, it was one of the saddest things I've ever seen. You will never bring peace.
Source: 2016 CNN-Telemundo Republican debate on eve of Texas primary , Feb 25, 2016

Figure out who our allies are
Q: What three questions do you ask your national security experts?

TRUMP: What we want to do, when we want to do it, and how hard do we want to hit? We are going to have to hit hard to knock out ISIS. We're going to have to learn who our allies are. We have allies, we have no idea who they are in Syria. Do we want to stay that route, or do we want to go and make something with Russia?
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

Iran deal is one of the worst I've ever seen
Sen. Ted CRUZ: If you look at the threats facing this country, the single gravest threat, national security threat, is the threat of a nuclear Iran. That's why I've pledged on day one to rip to shreds this Iranian nuclear deal.

TRUMP: The Iran deal is one of the worst deals I have ever seen negotiated in my entire life. It's a disgrace that this country negotiated that deal.
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

Better to have Mideast strongmen than Mideast chaos
Q: You think the Middle East would be better today if Gaddafi, Saddam and Assad were stronger? That the Middle East would be safer?

TRUMP: It's not even a contest. Iraq is a disaster. And ISIS came out of Iraq.

Q: Well, let me button this up. If Saddam and Gaddafi were still in power, you think things would be more stable?

TRUMP: Of course it would be. You wouldn't have had your Benghazi situation, which is one thing, which was just a terrible situation.

Q: Would you pull out of what we're doing in Syria now?

TRUMP: no, I'd sit back.
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interview moderated by Chuck Todd , Oct 4, 2015

Stop sending aid to countries that hate us
Devex compiled a list of quotes from Trump that provide a window into his view on foreign aid:

    "It is necessary that we invest in our infrastructure, and stop sending aid to countries that hate us--and nobody can do that better than me."-- Presidential announcement
    "Pakistan's a real problem because they have nuclear weapons. I would say we don't give them any money unless they get rid of their nuclear weapons."-- Fox News, May 9, 2011
    "The World Bank is tying poverty to climate change--and we wonder why international organizations are ineffective." --@realDonaldTrump Twitter, Nov. 19, 2012

Source: Devex global development blog, "Trump on foreign aid" , Sep 1, 2015

More sanctions on Iran; more support of Israel
What does Donald Trump believe? Iran and Israel: Walk away from nuclear talks. Increase sanctions.

Trump has said that the U.S. is mishandling current Iran negotiations and should have walked away from the table once Tehran reportedly rejected the idea of sending enriched uranium to Russia. He would increase sanctions on Iran. Trump has been sharply critical of the Obama administration's handling of relations with Israel and has called for a closer alliance with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu.
Source: PBS News Hour "2016 Candidate Stands" series , Jun 16, 2015

Donald Trump on Political Hotspots
At peace with North Korea due to my friendship with Kim
TRUMP: I met with Obama, he said, "The biggest problem we have is North Korea." He indicated we will be in a war with North Korea. I have a good relationship with Kim. We have a good relationship and there's no war. And about two months ago, he broke into a certain area. They said, "Oh, there's going to be trouble." I said, "No, because he's not going to do that." I was right. We don't have a war and I have a good relationship. Having a good relationship with leaders of other countries is a good thing.

BIDEN: What has he done? He's legitimized North Korea. He's talked about his good buddy, who's a thug. He talks about how we're better off. The Korean Peninsula should be a nuclear free zone.

TRUMP: They left me a mess. North Korea was a mess, and it was a very dangerous period in my first three months before we worked things out a little bit. . They left us a mess, and Obama would be, I think, the first to say it, was the single biggest problem he thought that our country.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

No involvement in Hong Kong protest or Tiananmen anniversary
[In "The Room Where It Happened", former NSA head John] Bolton writes in the excerpts that the president seemed unmoved by the massive protests last year in Hong Kong against China's communist government over human rights crackdowns. 'I first heard Trump react on June 12, upon hearing that some 1.5 million people had been at Sunday's demonstrations. 'That's a big deal,' he said. But he immediately added, 'I don't want to get involved,' and, 'We have human-rights problems too,' Bolton writes, according to the excerpts.

'I hoped Trump would see these Hong Kong developments as giving him leverage over China. I should have known better,' Bolton continues. 'That same month, on the 30th anniversary of China's massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, Trump refused to issue a White House statement. 'That was 15 years ago,' he said, inaccurately. 'Who cares about it? I'm trying to make a deal. I don't want anything.' And that was that.'
Source: USA Today excerpts from "The Room Where It Happened" , Jun 17, 2020

Uighur concentration camps are the right thing to do
In an essay adapted from his book, Bolton writes: 'One highlight came when [Chinese President Xi Jinping] said he wanted to work with Trump for 6 more years, and Trump replied that people were saying that the 2-term constitutional limit on presidents should be repealed for him. Xi said the US had too many elections, because he didn't want to switch away from Trump, who nodded approvingly.'

'At the opening of the Osaka G-20 meeting in June 2019, with only interpreters present, Xi had explained to Trump why he was basically building concentration camps in Xinjiang,' Bolton wrote. 'According to our interpreter, Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which Trump thought was exactly the right thing to do. The National Security Council's top Asia staffer, Matthew Pottinger, told me that Trump said something very similar during his November 2017 trip to China.' [According to leaked Communist party documents, at least 1 million Uighur Muslims are detained in the camps.]
Source: Axios.com excerpts from "The Room Where It Happened" , Jun 17, 2020

Restore democracy in Cuba & Venezuela
As we restore American leadership throughout the world, we are once again standing up for freedom in our hemisphere. That is why my Administration reversed the failing policies of the previous administration on Cuba. We are supporting the hopes of Cubans, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans to restore democracy. The United States is leading a 59-nation diplomatic coalition against the socialist dictator of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro. Maduro is an illegitimate ruler, a tyrant who brutalizes his people. But Maduro's grip of tyranny will be smashed and broken. Here this evening is a man who carries with him the hopes, dreams, and aspirations of all Venezuelans. Joining us in the gallery is the true and legitimate President of Venezuela, Juan Guaido. Mr. President, please take this message back to your homeland. All Americans are united with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom! Socialism destroys nations. But always remember, freedom unifies the soul.
Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

Refuses to consider mass killings of Armenians as genocide
The Trump administration does not consider the mass killings of Armenians in 1915 to be genocide, rejecting votes in Congress. Mr. Trump said the US paid tribute to the victims of "one of the worst mass atrocities of the 20th century", but he did not use the word genocide. Instead he encouraged Armenians and Turks to "acknowledge and reckon with their painful history."
Source: BBC.com on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Dec 17, 2019

You can never show weakness; you've got to project strength
In a tweet on September 23, Trump called [North Korean President] Kim "Little rocket Man". Trump was in the president's front cabin on Air Force One; Fox News was on the TV. "Little Rocket Man", Trump said proudly. "I think that may be my best nickname ever."

"It's funny," [said one advisor], "and it certainly seems to have gotten under Kim's skin." But, he asked, "What's the end game here if we continue to amp up the rhetoric and get into a war of words and it escalates, what are you hoping to get out of this? How does this end?"

"You can never show weakness," Trump replied. "You've got to project strength. Kim and others need to be convinced that I'm prepared to do anything to back up our interests."
Source: Fear: Trump in the White House, by Bob Woodward, p.281 , Sep 10, 2019

Sanctions on Communist dictators in North Korea & Cuba
My Administration has imposed tough sanctions on the communist and socialist dictatorships in Cuba and Venezuela. But no regime has oppressed its own citizens more totally or brutally than the cruel dictatorship in North Korea.

North Korea's reckless pursuit of nuclear missiles could very soon threaten our homeland. We are waging a campaign of maximum pressure to prevent that from happening.

Past experience has taught us that complacency and concessions only invite aggression and provocation. I will not repeat the mistakes of past administrations that got us into this dangerous position. We need only look at the depraved character of the North Korean regime to understand the nature of the nuclear threat it could pose to America and our allies.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

2012: Get tough on Pakistan; 2016: lavish praise on Pakistan
President-elect Donald Trump spoke by phone with Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in one of the many routine, get-acquainted chats he'll have before entering the White House. These talks rarely if ever make news, but this conversation raised eyebrows because Trump lavished praise on Sharif and Pakistan despite years of tension between the two countries, saying "You are doing amazing work which is visible in every way. Your country is amazing with tremendous opportunities. I am ready and willing to play any role that you want me to play to address and find solutions to the outstanding problems."

Previous remarks by Trump were not so effusive. Back in 2012, Trump tweeted, "Get it straight: Pakistan is not our friend. We've given them billions and billions of dollars, and what did we get? Betrayal and disrespect--and much worse. #TimeToGetTough". And in July 2012: "When will Pakistan apologize to us for providing safe sanctuary to Osama Bin Laden for 6 years?! Some 'ally.'"
Source: NPR.org analysis of Trump's Twitter posts on Pakistan , Dec 1, 2016

Brexit vote means people want to see borders
Q: Your views on "Brexit," the British exit vote from the European Union?

DONALD TRUMP: People want to see borders. They don't necessarily want people pouring into their country that they don't know who they are and where they come from. People want to take their country back. They want to have independence, in a sense. And you see it all over Europe. You're going to have, I think, many other cases where they want to take their borders back, they want to take their monetary [system] back, they want to take a lot of things back. They want to be able to have a country again. So I think you're going to have this happen more and more. And I think it's happening in the United States.

Q: Do you think he's right that there's a parallel?

SEN. TIM KAINE: There's a couple things you've got to understand. Young voters, those under 50, especially millennials, overwhelmingly voted to stay. And it was older voters who voted to leave [because pf] immigration issues and European regulation.
Source: Meet the Press 2016 interviews of presidential hopefuls , Jun 26, 2016

Develop nukes in South Korea & Japan to counter North Korea
At the Nuclear Security Summit, the president was asked for his reaction to Trump's suggestion that US allies Japan and South Korea manufacture their own nuclear weapons as a defense against North Korean aggression. Obama said the comments "tell us the person who made the statements doesn't know much about nuclear policy, or the Korean Peninsula or the world generally." White House aides pointed out that Trump's policy would reverse decades of bipartisan US foreign policy and would increase nuclear proliferation.

Trump has argued that allowing Japan and South Korea to get the weapons would relieve the US of defending their East Asia allies. Foreign leaders from both countries have dismissed the idea. "You have so many countries already--China, Pakistan, you have so many countries, Russia--you have so many countries right now that have them," Trump said during a CNN town hall. "Now, wouldn't you rather, in a certain sense, have Japan have nuclear weapons when North Korea has nuclear weapons?"
Source: NBC News, "Nuclear Weapons," by Andrew Rafferty , Apr 1, 2016

China should make Kim Jong Un disappear
Trump was asked how he would respond to North Korea's nuclear threat. "I would get China to make that guy disappear in one form or another very quickly," Trump said. He didn't clarify whether disappearing was equivalent to being assassinated but said, "Well, I've heard of worse things, frankly."

"I mean, this guy's a bad dude, and don't underestimate him," Trump said, referring to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. "Any young guy who can take over from his father with all those generals and everybody else that probably want the position, this is not somebody to be underestimated."

Trump maintained that China has control over North Korea and the US has control over China--thus "China should do that," he said. "China has control--absolute control--over North Korea. They don't say it, but they do," Trump explained. "And they should make that problem disappear. China is sucking us dry. They're taking our money. They're taking our jobs. We have rebuilt China with what they've taken out."
Source: Nolan McCaskill on Politico.com on Foreign Influences , Feb 10, 2016

China totally controls North Korea; they're just taunting us
Without China, North Korea doesn't even eat. China is ripping us on trade. They're devaluing their currency and they're killing our companies. We've lost between four and seven million jobs because of China. What I said then was, "we have very unfair trade with China. We're going to have a trade deficit of 505 billion dollars this year with China. I would start taxing goods that come in from China.
Source: Fox Business Republican 2-tier debate , Jan 14, 2016

Diplomacy & respect crucial to our relationship with Russia
Q: This week we're going to see a lot of world leaders come to Manhattan. Might you have a meeting with Russian president Vladimir Putin?

TRUMP: Well, I had heard that he wanted to meet with me. And certainly I am open to it. I don't know that it's going to take place, but I know that people have been talking. We'll see what happens. But certainly, if he wanted to meet, I would love to do that. You know, I've been saying relationship is so important in business, that it's so important in deals, and so important in the country. And if President Obama got along with Putin, that would be a fabulous thing. But they do not get along. Putin does not respect our president. And I'm sure that our president does not like him very much.
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interviews of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Sep 20, 2015

We must deal with the maniac in North Korea with nukes
[With regards to the Iranian nuclear deal]: Nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places. You have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, "I'm ready to use them." And we don't even mention it.
Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

Cuban embargo: 50 years is enough
Breaking ranks with nearly all of his fellow 2016 Republican contenders, Donald Trump says he supports President Barack Obama's decision to reengage diplomatically with Cuba. "50 years is enough," Trump said, referring to Obama's decision to re-establish U.S. ties with Cuba. "I think it's fine, but we should have made a better deal," Trump added. "The concept of opening with Cuba is fine."

Trump joins libertarian-leaning Sen. Rand Paul as the only Republican running for president to express his support for normalizing relations with Cuba. The rest of the GOP field has slammed Obama's decision to reopen the U.S. embassy in Havana and engage diplomatically with the government of Cuba.
Source: Jeremy Diamond on CNN , Sep 8, 2015

China is our enemy; they're bilking us for billions
China is bilking us for hundreds of billions of dollars by manipulating and devaluing its currency. Despite all the happy talk in Washington, the Chinese leaders are not our friends. I've been criticized for calling them our enemy. But what else do you call the people who are destroying your children's and grandchildren's future? What name would you prefer me to use for the people who are hell bent on bankrupting our nation, stealing our jobs, who spy on us to steal our technology, who are undermining our currency, and who are ruining our way of life? To my mind, that's an enemy. If we're going to make America number one again, we've got to have a president who knows how to get tough with China, how to out-negotiate the Chinese, and how to keep them from screwing us at every turn.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 2 , Dec 5, 2011

By 2027, tsunami as China overtakes US as largest economy
There is a lot that Obama and his globalist pals don't want you to know about China's strength. But no one who knows the truth can sit back and ignore how dangerous this economic powerhouse will be if our so-called leaders in Washington don't get their acts together and start standing up for American jobs and stop outsourcing them to China. It's been predicted that by 2027, China will overtake the United States as the world's biggest economy--much sooner if the Obama economy's disastrous trends continue. That means in a handful of years, America will be engulfed by the economic tsunami that is the People's Republic of China--my guess is by 2016 if we don't act fast.

For the past thirty years, China's economy has grown an average 9 to 10 percent each year. In the first quarter of 2011 alone, China's economy grew a robust 9.7 percent. America's first quarter growth rate? An embarrassing and humiliating 1.9 percent. It's a national disgrace.
Source: Time to Get Tough, on Foreign Influences, p. 30 , Dec 5, 2011

China: lack of human rights prevents consumer development
Why am I concerned with political rights? I’m a good businessman and I can be amazingly unsentimental when I need to be. I also recognize that when it comes down to it, we can’t do much to change a nation’s internal policies. But I’m unwilling to shrug off the mistreatment of China’s citizens by their own government. My reason is simple: These oppressive policies make it clear that China’s current government has contempt for our way of life.

We want to trade with China because of the size of its consumer market. But if the regime continues to repress individual freedoms, how many consumers will there really be? Isn’t it inconsistent to compromise our principles by negotiating trade with a country that may not want and cannot afford our goods?

We have to make it absolutely clear that we’re willing to trade with China, but not to trade away our principles, and that under no circumstances will we keep our markets open to countries that steal from us.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.119 & 123 , Jul 2, 2000

Be tougher on China-we’re too eager to please
Our biggest long-term challenge will be China. The Chinese people still have few political rights to speak of. Chinese government leaders, though they concede little, desperately want us to invest in their country. Though we have the upper hand, we’re way to eager to please. We see them as a potential market and we curry favor with them at the expense of our national interests. Our China policy under Presidents Clinton and Bush has been aimed at changing the Chinese regime by incentives both economic and political. The intention has been good, but it’s clear that the Chinese have been getting far too easy a ride.

Despite the opportunity, I think we need to take a much harder look at China. There are major problems that too many at the highest reaches of business want to overlook, [primarily] the human-rights situation.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.117-18 , Jul 2, 2000

Donald Trump on Russia
Biden is leading us to the brink of World War Three
He's leading us to the brink of World War Three, and on top of all of that, he's the most corrupt president in American history. And it's not even close.

But the good news is, we are going to reverse every single crisis, calamity, and disaster that Joe Biden has created. I am running for president to end the destruction of our country and to complete the unfinished business of making America great again. We will make our country better than ever before, and we will always put America first.
Source: Trump recorded prebuttal to 2023 State of the Union speech , Feb 7, 2023

The problem is not Putin is smart but our leaders are dumb
Reporters asked me if i thought President Putin was smart. I said of course he is smart. The NATO nations and indeed the world--as he looks over what is happening strategically with no repercussions or threats whatsoever--they are not so smart. They are looking the opposite of smart. The problem is not that Putin is smart, which of course he is smart, but the real problem is that our leaders are dumb.
Source: Speech at the 2022 CPAC Conference in Orlando FL , Feb 26, 2022

Nobody was tougher on Russia than me, and they respected us
A 2016 report prepared by Putin's expert department recommended Moscow use 'all possible force' to ensure a Trump presidential victory.

Independent experts say the report--"No 32-04\vd"--appears to be genuine.

The UK's former ambassador in Moscow said, "There is no sense Russia might have made a mistake by invading Ukraine. There is a good deal of paranoia. They believe the US is responsible for everything."

Trump did not initially respond to a request for comment. Later, his spokesperson, issued a statement: "This is disgusting. It's fake news, just likeÿRUSSIA, RUSSIA, RUSSIA was fake news. It's just the Radical Left crazies doing whatever they can to demean everybody. It's fiction, and nobody was tougher on Russia than me, including on the pipeline, and sanctions. At the same time we got along with Russia. Russia respected us, China respected us, Iran respected us, North Korea respected us. And the world was a much safer place than it is now with mentally unstable leadership."
Source: The Guardian on Trump Impeachment , Jul 15, 2021

Condemn Russian & any country's involvement in our elections
Q: What about allegations of Russian involvement in this election?

TRUMP: I don't know Putin. He said nice things about me. If we got along well, that would be good. He has no respect for our president. He has no respect for [Hillary Clinton].

CLINTON: Well, that's because he'd rather have a puppet as president of the United States.

TRUMP: No puppet. You're the puppet!

CLINTON: It's pretty clear you won't admit that the Russians have engaged in cyberattacks against the United States of America, [but] we have 17 intelligence agencies, civilian and military, who have all concluded that these cyberattacks come from the highest levels of the Kremlin and they are designed to influence our election.

TRUMP: She has no idea whether it's Russia, China, or anybody else.

Q: Do you condemn any interference by Russia in the American election?

TRUMP: By Russia or anybody else. Let me tell you, Putin has outsmarted her and Obama at every single step of the way.
Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate, on Foreign Influences , Oct 19, 2016

Russia wants to defeat ISIS as badly as we do; work together
Q: What prepares you to make the decisions that a commander-in-chief has to make?

A: I've built a great company. I've been all over the world. I've dealt with foreign countries. I've done tremendously well dealing with China and with many of the countries that are just ripping this country. I think the main thing is I have great judgment.

Q: What steps would you take to bring Putin back to negotiating table?

A: I would have a good relationship with Putin. Take a look at what happened with their fighter jets circling one of our aircraft in a very dangerous manner. Somebody said less than 10 feet away. This is hostility. Russia wants to defeat ISIS as badly as we do. If we had a relationship with Russia, wouldn't it be wonderful if we could knock the hell out of ISIS?

Q: Putin called you a brilliant leader.

A: When he calls me brilliant, I'll take the compliment. The fact is, look, it's not going to get him anywhere. I'm a negotiator. We're going to take back our country.
Source: 2016 NBC Commander-in-Chief forum with Matt Lauer , Sep 7, 2016

It's good that Putin says nice things about me
Trump noted that Russia's leader, Vladimir Putin, had been quoted saying that Trump was brilliant. Trump smirked at American media accounts suggesting it maybe wasn't a great thing for a presidential candidate to be praised by the autocratic leader of one of the country's most difficult rivals. "Oh, isn't it terrible that Putin said nice things?" Trump mocked. "That's not terrible, that's good...Wouldn't it be nice if we could get along with people?" Reporters were forever twisting his words, making it sound as if Trump supported Putin, he said. "By the way, I hate some of these 'reporters'. But I'd never kill them. I hate them". The cheers reached a new pinnacle, and Trump, his voice rising with the crowd's lusty shouts, added, "Some of them are such lying, disgusting people, it's true, it's true. But I would never kill them."
Source: Trump Revealed, on Foreign Influences, p. 6-7 , Aug 23, 2016

1987 thru 2013: Tried to build Trump Tower in Moscow
As early as 1987, Trump had expressed interest in building a Trump Tower in the Soviet Union. That year, on a visit to Moscow and Leningrad--now St. Petersburg--he said Soviet officials had asked him to consider building luxury hotels there. "There are not too many ideas that I become attracted to, but that is one I think would interest a lot of people," Trump said at the time. "Not purely from an economic standpoint, either."

At the Miss Universe Pageant in Moscow in 2013, Trump said he was in serious talks about building a skyscraper in Moscow. Trump made a series of complimentary comments about Putin.

Trump would express admiration for Putin's leadership, despite his record of prosecuting and persecuting journalists and political opponents. Still, no Trump Tower rose over Moscow.
Source: Trump Revealed, on Foreign Influences, p.245 , Aug 23, 2016

Let Russia bash ISIS; let Germany defend Ukraine
Q: Russia has invaded Ukraine, and has put troops in Syria. You have said you will have a good relationship with Mr. Putin. So, what does President Trump do in response to Russia's aggression?

TRUMP: As far as Syria, if Putin wants to go and knock the hell out of ISIS, I am all for it, 100%, and I can't understand how anybody would be against it.

Q: They're not doing that.

TRUMP: They blew up a Russian airplane. He cannot be in love with these people. He's going in, and we can go in, and everybody should go in. As far as the Ukraine is concerned, we have a group of people, and a group of countries, including Germany--why are we always doing the work? I'm all for protecting Ukraine--but, we have countries that are surrounding the Ukraine that aren't doing anything. They say, "Keep going, keep going, you dummies, keep going. Protect us." And we have to get smart. We can't continue to be the policeman of the world.
Source: Fox Business/WSJ First Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

Good that Russia is involved in Syria
Q: You came across to me as if you welcomed Putin's involvement in Syria. You said you saw very little downside. Why?

TRUMP: I want our military to be beyond anything, no contest, and technologically, most importantly. But we are going to get bogged down in Syria. If you look at what happened with the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, that's when they went bankrupt.

Q: So, you think Putin's going to get suckered into--

TRUMP: They're going to get bogged down. Everybody that's touched the Middle East, they've gotten bogged down. Now, Putin wants to go in and I like that Putin is bombing the hell out of ISIS. Putin has to get rid of ISIS because Putin doesn't want ISIS coming into Russia.

Q: Why do you trust him and nobody else does?

TRUMP: I don't trust him. But the truth is, it's not a question of trust. I don't want to see the United States get bogged down. We've spent now $2 trillion in Iraq, probably a trillion in Afghanistan. We're destroying our country.
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interview moderated by Chuck Todd , Oct 4, 2015

Putin has no respect for America; I will get along with him
Q: What would you do right now if you were president, to get the Russians out of Syria?

TRUMP: Number one, they have to respect you. He has absolutely no respect for President Obama. Zero. I would talk to him. I would get along with him. I believe I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with. I think I will get along with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable world.
Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

Support Russia, but with strings attached
I don’t understand why American policymakers are always so timid in dealing with Russia on issues that directly involve our survival. Kosovo was a perfect case in point: Russia was holding out its hand for billions of dollars in IMF loans (to go along with billions in aid the U.S. has given) the same week it was issuing threats and warnings regarding our conduct in the Balkans. We need to tell Russia and other recipients that if they want our dime they had better do our dance, at least in matters regarding our national security. These people need us much more than we need them. We have leverage, and we are crazy not to use it to better advantage.

Few respect weakness. Ultimately we have to deal with hostile nations in the only language they know: unshrinking conviction and the military power to back it up if need be. There and in that order are America’s two greatest assets in foreign affairs.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.134 , Jul 2, 2000

Supports standing with the nation of israel.
Trump supports the CC survey question on support of Israel

The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'The U.S. Should Continue to Support and Stand with the Nation of Israel Against her Enemies' The Christian Coalition notes, "You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives."
Source: Christian Coalition Survey 16_CC14 on Nov 8, 2016


