 $1T infrastructure bill continues destruction of our country
Statement by Donald J. Trump on the $1 trillion bipartisan physical infrastructure bill's Senate passage:

Hard to believe our Senate Republicans are dealing with the Radical Left Democrats in making a so-called bipartisan bill on 'infrastructure,' with our negotiators headed up by SUPER RINO [Republican in name only] Mitt Romney. This will be a victory for the Biden Administration and Democrats, and will be heavily used in the 2022 election. It is a loser for the USA, a terrible deal, and makes the Republicans look weak, foolish, and dumb. It shouldn't be done. It sets an easy glidepath for Dems to then get beyond what anyone thought was possible in future legislation. It will be a continued destruction of our Country. Our Borders are horrible, crime is at an all time high, taxes and inflation are going way up, the economy is going way down, and now this. Don't do it Republicans--Patriots will never forget! If this deal happens, lots of primaries will be coming your way!
Source: Twitter posting on Biden Administration , Jul 28, 2021

America will put first woman on moon, & flag on Mars
We will launch a new age of American Ambition in Space. America will land the first WOMAN on the moon -- and the United States will be the first nation to plant its flag on Mars.

We want our sons and daughters to know the truth: America is the greatest and most exceptional nation in the history of the world! We are a nation of fierce, proud, and independent American Patriots. We are a nation of pilgrims, pioneers, adventurers, explorers and trailblazers who refused to be tied down, held back, or reined in. Americans have steel in their spines, grit in their souls, and fire in their hearts. There is no one like us on earth.
Source: Speech at 2020 Republican National Convention , Aug 28, 2020

Artificial Intelligence initiative: invest in the future
Trump will sign an executive order launching the American Artificial Intelligence (AI) initiative, which aims at bolstering American leadership in AI. The initiative features a "multi-pronged approach" that is categorized into five key pillars: research and development, AI infrastructure, AI governance, workforce and international engagement.

As part of his State of the Union address last week, Trump called for "investments in the cutting edge industries of the future," and as administration official underscored the importance of AI in "driving" these future industries for the US. When asked about China's advancements in AI and any concerns that the US may have about China stealing US innovations, the official said: "The US is the world leader in artificial intelligence. It is not surprising to us that the Chinese are interested." But as for intellectual property protections, "that is something that this specific executive order does not cover."
Source: CNN.com on 2019 State of the Union aftermath , Feb 11, 2019

Let US companies work in China with proprietary technology
Trump's second round of tariffs on imports worth $200 billion--and a threat that the US would "immediately pursue phase three" if China retaliates--shows his administration's determination to force Beijing to allow US companies to operate in China as Chinese companies can in America. China restricts foreign participation in key sectors including media and car manufacturing, under Beijing's agreement to join the WTO in 2001. In many cases, these restrictions force foreign companies to form joint ventures and turn over proprietary technologies to their local partners to tap the Chinese market.

"For months, we have urged China to change these unfair practices, and give fair and reciprocal treatment to American companies," Trump said in a statement. "We have been very clear about the type of changes that need to be made, and we have given China every opportunity to treat us more fairly. But, so far, China has been unwilling to change its practices."
Source: South China Morning Post on 2018 Trump Administration , Sep 17, 2018

Be more aggressive against leakers of classified information
The president [listed] a long series of problems with leaks of classified information--a concern I shared. Like all presidents before him, he was frustrated that people with access with classified information were out there talking to reporters about it.

But I also told him that if we could make a case--if we could nail a leaker of classified information to the wall--it would serve as an important deterrence signal. Although I had made no reference about going after members of the media, the president said something about how we once put reporters in jail and made them talk.

This was a reference to the Scooter Libby investigation, when N.Y. Times reporter Judith Miller spent nearly three months in jail in 2005 in contempt of court for refusing to comply with a court order for information about her conversations with Libby. He then urged me to talk to attorney general Sessions about ways to be more aggressive.
Source: A Higher Loyalty, by James Comey, p.254 , Apr 17, 2018

All humankind benefits from reaching into the stars
Q: What should America's national goals be for space exploration?

TRUMP: Space exploration has given so much to America, including tremendous pride in our scientific and engineering prowess. A strong space program will encourage our children to seek STEM educational outcomes and will bring millions of jobs and trillions of dollars in investment to this country. The cascading effects of a vibrant space program are legion and can have a positive, constructive impact on the pride and direction of this country. Observation from space and exploring beyond our own space neighborhood should be priorities. We should also seek global partners, because space is not the sole property of America. All humankind benefits from reaching into the stars.

JILL STEIN: We recognize the inspiration provided by space exploration and so we support the peaceful exploration of space; space-based systems to monitor environmental conditions; and measures to ensure that space technology benefits all the people of Earth.
Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

Encourage innovation in the areas of space exploration
Q: What policies will best ensure that America remains at the forefront of innovation in science and engineering?

TRUMP: Innovation has always been one of the great by-products of free market systems. The federal government should encourage innovation in the areas of space exploration and investment in research and development across the broad landscape of academia.

Q: Many scientific advances require long-term investment to fund research over a period of longer than the two year terms that govern political cycles. How will you balance long-term funding?

TRUMP: The premise of this question is exactly correct--scientific advances do require long term investment. This is why we must have programs such as a viable space program and institutional research that serve as incubators to innovation and the advancement of science and engineering in a number of fields. We should also bring together stakeholders and examine what the priorities ought to be for the nation.
Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

Emmy award & Hollywood Walk of Fame for "The Apprentice"
Trump is the Emmy-nominated star and co-producer of the reality television series, "The Apprentice" which quickly became the number one show on television, making ratings history and receiving rave reviews and world wide attention. "The Celebrity Apprentice" has met with great success as well, being one of the highest rated shows on television. The Apprentice's record 14th season premiered in January, 2015. "You're fired!" is listed as the third greatest television catchphrase of all time.

In 2007, Trump received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and he is among the highest paid public speakers in the world. The Apprentice has raised over $15 million for charity.
Source: 2016 presidential campaign website, DonaldJTrump.com , Jun 16, 2015

Took chance by starting Clear Channel radio program
The word visionary evokes a lot of images and definitions, some even being a Don Quixote. It often connotes someone who is idealistic. There is nothing wrong with that as long as it's contained within reason. Visionaries move the world along into new dimensions.

One of the worst fears we can have is the fear to attempt something. I wasn't sure I'd be a success on the radio, but I went for it and my program on Clear Channel was a big hit. But I had to take the chance first to find out.
Source: Think Like a Champion, by Donald Trump, p. 28-9 , Apr 27, 2010

Donald Trump on Infrastructure
$2 trillion for infrastructure as next response to pandemic
President Trump called for a $2 trillion infrastructure bill to serve as 'Phase 4' of the federal government's coronavirus response efforts. 'With interest rates for the United States being at ZERO, this is the time do our decades long awaited Infrastructure Bill.'

'It should be VERY BIG & BOLD, Two Trillion Dollars, and be focused solely on jobs and rebuilding the once great infrastructure of our Country! Phase 4.'
Source: Fox News Sunday analysis of Trump Administration , Mar 31, 2020

New roads, bridges & tunnels, plus high-speed rural internet
We must also rebuild America's infrastructure. I ask you to pass Senator Barrasso's highway bill--to invest in new roads, bridges, and tunnels across our land. I am also committed to ensuring that every citizen can have access to high-speed internet, including rural America.

Congressional Summary: S.2302 addresses several provisions related to highway transportation infrastructure, including provisions to accelerate project completions, improve resiliency to disasters, and reduce highway emissions, [including]:

    a bridge investment program to award competitive grants
    new climate-related grant programs, including for carbon reduction
    expands the flexibility provided out of the Highway Trust Fund; and
    prioritizes animal detection systems that reduce the number of wildlife-vehicle collisions.

[Legislative status: Introduced by John Barasso (R-WY) on 7/29/19, with 3 bipartisan co-sponsors; Report 1/8/20 to Committee on Environment and Public Works].
Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

No to $30B for NYC-NJ Gateway rail tunnel
President Trump is pushing congressional Republicans not to fund a crucial infrastructure project--a long-delayed plan to build a new rail tunnel between Manhattan and New Jersey. The $30 billion Gateway project would construct a tunnel into New York's Penn Station to supplement two aging tubes that are at risk of failing.

The project is widely considered to be among the most pressing and most expensive infrastructure needs in the country, and state and local leaders have long sought federal funding to jump-start work on it. But the Trump administration threw the project into doubt late last year by casting aside an agreement reached during the Obama administration that would have the federal government pick up half the project's cost.

And now, Trump has taken a personal interest in making sure no federal dollars flow to a project that is considered critical to his hometown's long-term economic prosperity. The motivations behind Trump's opposition are not entirely clear.
Source: Washington Post, "NY-NJ Tunnel" on 2018 Trump Administration , Mar 2, 2018

$1.5T for new investment to fix infrastructure deficit
It is time to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. Tonight, I am calling on the Congress to produce a bill that generates at least $1.5 trillion for the new infrastructure investment we need. Every Federal dollar should be leveraged by partnering with State and local governments and, where appropriate, tapping into private sector investment--to permanently fix the infrastructure deficit.

Together, we can reclaim our building heritage. We will build gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways, and waterways across our land. And we will do it with American heart, American hands, and American grit.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

Change permitting rules to build reliable infrastructure
America is a nation of builders. We built the Empire State Building in just 1 year--is it not a disgrace that it can now take 10 years just to get a permit approved for a simple road?

I am asking both parties to come together to give us the safe, fast, reliable, and modern infrastructure our economy needs and our people deserve.

Any bill must also streamline the permitting and approval process--getting it down to no more than two years, and perhaps even one.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

Trillions abroad while crumbling infrastructure at home
We've financed and built one global project after another, but ignored the fates of our children in the inner cities. We've defended the borders of other nations, while leaving our own borders wide open, for anyone to cross--and for drugs to pour in at a now unprecedented rate. And we've spent trillions of dollars overseas, while our infrastructure at home has so badly crumbled.

It's been a little over a month since my inauguration, and I want to take this moment to update the Nation on the progress I've made in keeping those promises. America must put its own citizens first .

Crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads, bridges, tunnels, airports and railways gleaming across our beautiful land. Our terrible drug epidemic will slow down and ultimately, stop. And our neglected inner cities will see a rebirth of hope, safety, and opportunity. Above all else, we will keep our promises to the American people.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

New program of national rebuilding, like Ike's interstates
Another Republican President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, initiated the last truly great national infrastructure program--the building of the interstate highway system. The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding.

America has spent approximately $6 trillion in the Middle East, all this while our infrastructure at home is crumbling. With this $6 trillion we could have rebuilt our country--twice. And maybe even three times if we had people who had the ability to negotiate.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

Assign high-priority infrastructure projects
Trump signed a burst of executive orders within just his first three weeks to undo many of President Barack Obama's regulatory policies. Here's an overview:
Expediting Environmental Reviews and Approvals for High-Priority Infrastructure Projects: Signed: Jan. 24, 2017
The order outlines how the administration will expedite environmental reviews and approval of "high priority" infrastructure projects, such as repairs to bridges, airports and highways.

The order directs the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), within 30 days of a request, to determine a project's environmental impact and decide whether it is "high priority." Project review deadlines are to be put in place by the CEQ's chairman.

The order is widely believed to have been issued in response to the protests against the Dakota Access Pipeline, [an incomplete project for shale oil which many protest on environmental grounds].
Source: NBC News on 2017 Trump Administration promises & actions , Feb 14, 2017

New roads & airports & tunnels & railways all across America
America will start winning again, winning like never before. We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth. And we will bring back our dreams.

We will build new roads, and highways, and bridges, and airports, and tunnels, and railways all across our wonderful nation. We will get our people off of welfare and back to work--rebuilding our country with American hands and American labor.
Source: 2017 Trump Inaugural address at presidential Inauguration , Jan 20, 2017

Make desalinization affordable; rebuild water infrastructure
Q: What steps will you take to deal with aging infrastructure, aquifer depletion, pollution, and ensure access to clean water?

TRUMP: This may be the most important issue we face as a nation for the next generation. Therefore, we must make the investment in our fresh water infrastructure to ensure access to affordable fresh water solutions for everyone. We must explore all options to include making desalinization more affordable and working to build the distribution infrastructure to bring this scarce resource to where it is needed for our citizens and those who produce the food of the world. This must be a top priority for my administration.

CLINTON: Chronic underinvestment in our nation's drinking and wastewater systems poses health risks to humans and wildlife, disrupts ecosystems, and disproportionately impacts communities of color.

JILL STEIN: Clean water is a human right.
Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

Can't fix infrastructure because politicians squander money
Our airports are like from a third world country. owe $20 trillion, and we're a mess. We've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. And it's really a shame. And it's politicians like Clinton that have caused this problem. We're a debtor nation. We're a serious debtor nation. And we have a country that needs new roads, new tunnels, new bridges, new airports, new schools, new hospitals. And we don't have the money, because it's been squandered on so many of your ideas.
Source: First 2016 Presidential Debate at Hofstra University , Sep 26, 2016

Crumbling infrastructure costs $200B in reduced productivity
This country's infrastructure is falling apart. According to engineers, one out of every nine bridges in this country is structurally deficient, approximately a quarter of them are already functionally obsolete, and almost a third of them have exceeded their design lives.

Our infrastructure is terrible, and it's only getting worse and more expensive to fix. It's already costing the American people and estimated $200 billion a year in reduced productivity. That number is increasing annually. Instead of being at the office or in the factory getting work done, Americans waste countless hours every day sitting in traffic jams or waiting for stalled trains. We depend on our truckers to deliver the goods we need, and they end up wasting an unbelievable amount of time because our highway system is falling apart.

I wonder, why can't we get these problems fixed? The answer is that the people we put in charge don't know how to fix them.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p.120-2 , Nov 3, 2015

FactCheck: 24% of our bridges are in trouble, not 59%
Trump claimed "59% of our bridges are in trouble." That's way off. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) says 24% of the nation's bridges were "structurally deficient" or "functionally obsolete" in 2014.

On Aug. 25, Trump said, "Our bridges, 59% of our bridges are in trouble. Think--whoever heard of that? I mean, in trouble. Serious trouble." Whoever heard of that? Not the FHWA. The agency annually produces a report on the state of the nation's bridges. The FHWA's most recent report found 61,365 bridges were "structurally deficient" and 84,525 were "functionally obsolete" in 2014. That's a total of 24%

Functionally obsolete doesn't mean the bridge is unsafe: it may be the source of traffic jams or may not have a high enough clearance to allow an oversized vehicle.

We don't mean to minimize the number of bridges in need of attention, but the number is simply not as high as Trump says. Where did he get the figure 59%? We don't know. His campaign did not respond to our questions.
Source: FactCheck.org on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 27, 2015

Rebuild our infrastructure on time & on budget
[As president I'd] rebuild the country's infrastructure. Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

We have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Source: 2015 announcement speeches of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Jun 16, 2015

Donald Trump on Internet
I filed a big class action lawsuit against big tech giants
To protect the Constitutional rights and liberties of every citizen, I filed a major class action. Lot of people are joining. Yep. A big class action lawsuit against the big tech giants. We are taking Mark Zookerbucks, Jack Dorsey, and the other Silicon Valley billionaires to federal court, and we will keep on fighting until we have stopped this assault on our liberties and until we have restored the sacred right to freedom of speech for every single American.
Source: Speech transcript from 2021 CPAC Conference , Jul 11, 2021

The time has come to break up big tech monopolies
The time has come to break up big tech monopolies and restore fair competition. Republicans, conservatives must open up our platforms and repeal section 230 liability protections. And if the federal government refuses to act, then every state in the union where we have the votes, which is a lot of them, big tech giants, like Twitter, Google, and Facebook should be punished with major sanctions whenever they silence conservative voices.
Source: Remarks by Pres. Trump at the 2021 CPAC Conference , Feb 28, 2021

Twitter is the reason I got elected and am successful
When Trump and Kim Jong Un ramped up the rhetoric, he was warned, "Twitter could get us into a war."

"This is my megaphone, " Trump said again. "Let's not call it Twitter, let's call it social media." Though the White House had Facebook and Instagram accounts, Trump did not use them. He stuck to Twitter. "This is who I am. This is how I communicate. It's how I got elected. It's the reason I'm successful.

The tweets were not included to his presidency. They were central. He ordered printouts to his recent tweets that had received a high number of likes, 200,000 or more. He studied them to find out the common themes in the most successful.
Source: Fear: Trump in the White House, by Bob Woodward, p.206 , Sep 10, 2019

2016: cheered on WikiLeaks releasing Hillary's stolen emails
Mueller showed a rare flash of indignation regarding WikiLeaks. Mueller called Mr. Trump's encouragement of WikiLeaks "problematic." WikiLeaks published emails stolen by Russian agents during the 2016 campaign, first from the Democratic National Committee, then from Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta. Mr. Trump cheered the group on repeatedly, praised its actions and urged voters to read the purloined communications.

Representative Mike Quigley, Democrat of Illinois, questioned Mueller on Mr. Trump's response to WikiLeaks. Mr. Mueller did not mince words: "It's problematic -- is an understatement, in terms of what it displays in terms of giving some hope or some boost to what is and should be illegal activity," Mr. Mueller responded.
Source: NYTimes on 2019 Congressional Testimony on Mueller Report , Jul 24, 2019

Repeal internet privacy rules: let companies sell ad info
President Trump signed a bill repealing internet privacy rules passed last year that would have given internet users greater control over what service providers can do with their data. The FCC regulations would have required broadband companies to get permission from their customers in order to use their "sensitive" data--including browsing history, geolocation and financial and medical information--to create targeted advertisements.

The bill uses a little-known tool called the Congressional Review Act (CRA) that allows the president to overturn recently passed agency regulations. Before Trump took office, the CRA had only been successfully passed once, under Pres. Bush in 2001. Trump has signed 10 bills overturning Obama-era regulations, including the internet privacy rule.

The bill caused an uproar when it passed the House and Senate last month, with critics accusing Republicans of selling their constituents' privacy.
Source: The Hill analysis of 2016-17 Trump Administration , Apr 3, 2017

Proportional response to eliminate cyberattacks
Q: What steps will you take to protect vulnerable infrastructure and institutions from cyber attack, while protecting personal privacy on electronic devices and the internet?

TRUMP: The United States government should not spy on its own citizens. That will not happen in a Trump administration. As for protecting the Internet, any attack on the Internet should be considered a provocative act that requires the utmost in protection and, at a minimum, a proportional response that identifies and then eliminates threats to our Internet infrastructure.

CLINTON: I will make it clear that the United States will treat cyberattacks just like any other attack. We will be ready with serious political, economic and military responses and we will invest in protecting our governmental networks and national infrastructure.

JILL STEIN: Negotiate international treaty banning cyberwarfare; create a new UN agency tasked with identifying the sources of cyber attacks.
Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

We invented Internet but ISIS is beating us at our own game
Q: How do we fight a cyber attack?

A: We should be better than anybody else, and perhaps we're not. I don't think anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She's saying "Russia, Russia, Russia," but I don't. Maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, OK? We came up with the Internet, and Clinton and myself would agree very much, when you look at what ISIS is doing with the Internet, they're beating us at our own game. So we have to get very, very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. It is a huge problem. The security aspect of cyber is very, very tough. And maybe it's hardly doable. But I will say, we are not doing the job we should be doing. But that's true throughout our whole governmental society. We have so many things that we have to do better and certainly cyber is one of them.
Source: First 2016 Presidential Debate at Hofstra University , Sep 26, 2016

Close our Internet up, to fight ISIS terrorist recruitment
Q: You recently suggested "closing that Internet up," as a way to stop ISIS from recruiting online. Some say that would put the US in line with China and North Korea.

TRUMP: ISIS is recruiting through the Internet. ISIS is using the Internet better than we are using the Internet, and it was our idea. I want to get our brilliant people from Silicon Valley and other places and figure out a way that ISIS cannot do what they're doing. You talk freedom of speech. I don't want them using our Internet to take our young, impressionable youth. We should be using our most brilliant minds to figure a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet. And then we should be able to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything about ISIS. And we can do that if we use our good people.

Q: So, are you open to closing parts of the Internet?

TRUMP: I would certainly be open to closing areas where we are at war with somebody. I don't want to let people that want to kill us \use our Internet.
Source: 2015 CNN/Salem Republican two-tier debate , Dec 15, 2015

Net neutrality is top down power grab of the Internet
Donald Trump shoots from the hip when it comes to Net neutrality--and most subjects. In a tweet Trump thundered, "Obama's attack on the internet is another top down power grab. Net neutrality is the Fairness Doctrine. Will target the conservative media."

Given Trump's current war with Fox News, he may be reconsidering his defense of conservative media. But in any case, the defense is ill-placed: The Fairness Doctrine--an FCC policy from the late '40s that said broadcasters must present issues in an honest, equitable, and balanced way--was eliminated in 1987. It has nothing to do with Net neutrality.

As one pundit noted, "How keeping the Internet accessible to everyone is somehow a power grab, or how it will somehow oppress conservatives, is beyond us. The Fairness Doctrine required equal time for opposing views; Net neutrality allows any idiot to use the Internet however he so chooses, without having to pay extra fees in order for people to actually see it.."
Source: InfoWorld, "Where the candidates stand on net neutrality" , Sep 25, 2015

China threatens US with cyber warfare & industrial espionage
Where do you think Communist Chinese President Hu Jintao plans to direct most of China's educational and economic edge? That's right, the military and weapons industries.

What China is doing on the cyber warfare front is equally alarming. Cyber spying can isolate network weaknesses and allow the Chinese to steal valuable intelligence.

China presents three big threats to the United States in its outrageous currency manipulation, its systematic attempt to destroy our manufacturing base, and its industrial espionage and cyber warfare against America. The Chinese have been running roughshod over us for years. Obama claims we can't do what's in our interests because it might spark a "trade war"--as if we're not in one now.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 32-33 , Dec 5, 2011

Computer industry is overheated
Today the computer and technology industries are hot, but that doesn't mean that they won't cool off quickly. It just seems to me that they are overheated, and competition is strong. When I read about all of the different companies producing new computers by the thousands, it seems like a very tough business to me. But then, I don't even know how to turn on a computer. Therefore, I'm not a natural investor in technology. If you are drawn to this sector, at least approach it with an advisor.
Source: The Art of the Comeback, by Donald Trump, p.191 , Oct 27, 1997

Voted NO on net neutrality: don't regulate the internet.
Trump voted NAY Save the Internet Act

Summary by Vox.com: The US House of Representatives just passed a bill to bring Obama-era net neutrality rules back to the internet. This time, they want to make these regulations law so the Federal Communications Commission can’t overturn them easily. President Trump has said he will veto the bill should it make it to his desk. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called the bill `dead on arrival in the Senate`.

Statement in support by Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA-16): `The internet has a profound impact on America`s economy and the social fabric of our nation. It is an important tool to connect individuals to each other and businesses with consumers, said Costa. `Ensuring a free and open internet, with equal access to all, is essential if we are to preserve the American dream.`

Statement in opposition by Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC-8): `If this legislation became law, the Internet would be slower, more expensive, less free and controlled by Washington,` said Rep. Hudson. `This would hurt our rural communities the most. I`ll continue to work to keep the Internet free from government intervention and open.`

Statement in opposition by Rep. Don Bacon (R-NC-8): `Previous regulations led to additional expenses for 80% of providers in rural areas leading to delayed or reduced network expansion and services,` said Rep. Bacon. `This bill would also lay the groundwork for the government for eventually taxing the internet.` The internet is now operating under the same regulations that governed, and facilitated its expansive growth, from the mid 1990`s until 2015. Some Democrats predicted that the return of those regulations would lead to limited access of the internet. None of those scenarios came true.

Legislative outcome: Bill passed House 232-190-10 on April 10, 2019, rollcall #167. [The 116th Congress terminated with no Senate action on this bill].
Source: Congressional vote 19-HR1644 on Mar 8, 2019


