 AdWatch: Encourages voting early and mail-in ballots

    Video: [Each person appears individually with a patriotic backdrop and speaks to the camera, with their name and title appearing on screen with the BankYourVote logo]:
    RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel: When Republicans vote early, we win.
    Former Vice President Mike Pence: You can bank your vote by casting your ballot before election day.
    Miami Mayor Francis Suarez (R-FL): Vote early, in-person, or by mail.
    Former President Donald Trump: Go to BankYourVote.com to sign up and commit to voting early
    Sen. Bill Hagerty (R-TN): That's how we're going to beat the Democrats at their own game.
    Rep. Byron Daniels (R-FL): Go to BankYourVote.com.
    Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX): And please, take the pledge to bank your vote to beat Biden.
    Narration text: Sign up at BankYourVote.com today to enter to win a chance to go to a future Republican Presidential Primary debate. 

Source: AdWatch on 2023 GOP debate in Milwaukee , Aug 23, 2023

FactCheck: Presidential Records Act irrelevant to Boxes Hoax
[Trump said about "the Boxes Hoax" in a 9/17/23 Meet the Press interview], "I fall within the Presidential Records Act. It's very simple. It's a civil thing. And this should never have been an indictment. There's no criminal." Is that true?

Fact-Check by CBS News (June 13, 2023):The National Archives and Records Administration, or NARA released a statement detailing how presidential records are meant to be handled. "The PRA requires that all records created by Presidents (and Vice-Presidents) be turned over to [NARA] at the end of their administrations," the Archives said.

Prosecutors are not relying on the PRA to bring charges against Trump. He is instead charged with retaining national defense information under a different law known as the Espionage Act, a 1917 statute that has been used to prosecute other high-profile cases related to the retention or dissemination of classified information.
Source: CBS News FactCheck of 2024 Presidential primary hopefuls , Jun 13, 2023

Give president power to fire all executive branch employees
here are some of the other things we must do with republicans back in charge. we must pass critical reforms making every executive branch employee fireable by the presidents. the deep state must and will be brought to heel.
Source: Speech at the 2022 CPAC Conference in Orlando FL , Feb 26, 2022

FactCheck: 128 judgeships open because Senate GOP forced it
Trump said, "President Obama [& Biden] left me 128 judges to fill. When you leave office, you don't leave any judges. Maybe he got complacent." Is that true that Trump could appoint so many judges because President Obama left the positions unfilled? We checked, and found that while it's true that Trump inherited 128 open judge positions, that was because the Senate blocked Obama's appointments.

Excerpts from The Hill e-zine, March 29, 2018: "Republicans took control of the Senate in 2014 during Obama's last two years in office and did not confirm many of his nominees. The Senate's top Republicans, led by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, teamed up to block Democratic efforts to push forward Obama's nominees, slowing down confirmations by the most in six decades. Most notably, McConnell refused to hold a confirmation hearing on Obama's nominee for Supreme Court justice, Merrick Garland. The vacancies left behind by the Obama administration were not by choice.
Source: The Hill e-zine Fact-Check on First 2020 Presidential Debate , Sep 29, 2020

Obama left 128 openings for judges; I appointed 300
I'll tell you something, some people say maybe the most important by the end of the first term I'll have approximately 300 Federal judges and Court of Appeals judges, 300 and hopefully three great Supreme Court judges, justices that is a record the likes of which very few people and one of the reasons I'll have so many judges because President Obama and him left me 128 judges to fill. When you leave office, you don't leave any judges. That's like, you just don't do that. They left 128 openings and if I were a member of his party, because they have a little different philosophy, I'd say, if you left us 128 openings you can't be a good president. You can't be a good vice president but I want to thank you because it gives us almost, it'll probably be above that number. By the end of this term, 300 judges. It's a record.
Source: First 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Sep 29, 2020

Solicited mail-in ballots ok; unsolicited ballots are fraud
TRUMP: As far as the ballots are concerned, it's a disaster. A solicited ballot, okay, solicited, is okay. You're soliciting. You're asking. They send it back. You send it back. I did that. If you have an unsolicited. They're sending millions of ballots all over the country. This is going to be a fraud like you've never seen.

Q: In 2018, in the last midterm election, 31 million people voted mail-in voting. That was more than a quarter of all the voters that year, cast their ballots by mail. Now that millions of mail-in ballots have gone out, what are you going to do about it? And are you counting on the Supreme Court, including a Justice Barrett, to settle any dispute?

TRUMP: I think I'm counting on them to look at the ballots, definitely. I hope we don't need them, in terms of the election itself. But for the ballots, I think so, because what's happening is incredible. This is not going to end well.
Source: First 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Sep 29, 2020

Confirmation of Neil Gorsuch among top accomplishments
Just a few days before Christmas the Senate passed the president's tax cuts with unanimous Republican support, and the president signed it into law. We celebrated at the White House, and American business celebrated by handing out Christmas bonuses to millions of their employees. We had finished the presidents first year strong, and despite some setbacks, it was clear the president had a lot of major achievements to be proud of--a booming economy--millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth-- lower taxes on families and businesses--repeal of the ObamaCare mandate--greater energy independence--confirmation of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court--ISIS on the run and their caliphate in ruins.

The press never gave the president much credit for these achievements--90% of the media coverage in the first year of the Trump presidency was negative. The American people ended 2017 much better with Trump than his predecessor, but you certainly wouldn't know it from the media coverage.
Source: Speaking for Myself, by Sarah Huckabee Sanders, p.106 , Sep 8, 2020

Against mail-in voting, early voting as terrible, dishonest
At the White House Coronavirus Task Force briefing, Trump said mail-in voting is "a terrible thing."

"I think if you vote, you should go. Even the concept of early voting is not the greatest, because a lot of things happen," he said. But he emphasized "there's a lot of dishonesty going on with mail-in voting, mail-in ballots. Thousands of votes are gathered and dumped in a location and all of a sudden you lose elections that you think you win," Trump said. "I'm not going to stand for it."
Source: WorldNetDaily blog on 2020 Veepstakes , Feb 14, 2020

FactCheck: Whistleblower rules never require 1st-hand report
Pres. Trump tweeted a conspiracy theory suggesting the rules for whistleblowing had recently changed in order to accommodate the recent whistleblower complaint against him; specifically, so that someone with secondhand knowledge could now submit these complaints. "WHO CHANGED THE LONG STANDING WHISTLEBLOWER RULES JUST BEFORE SUBMITTAL OF THE FAKE WHISTLEBLOWER REPORT? DRAIN THE SWAMP!" Trump tweeted.

The theory was initially propagated by The Federalist website on Sep. 27. The article claims that in "Aug. 2019, the intelligence community secretly eliminated a requirement that whistleblowers provide direct, first-hand knowledge of alleged wrongdoings."

Facts First: This is false. The whistleblower submission form was revised in Aug. 2019, but the revision did not change the rules on who can submit a whistleblower complaint. The inspector general of the intelligence community said that having firsthand knowledge of the event has never been required in order to submit a whistleblower complaint.
Source: Cato Institute FactCheck on impeaching Trump , Sep 30, 2019

Our news media is the enemy of the people
President Trump on Sunday again launched a blistering Twitter attack on the media, a day before his highly anticipated meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"Heading to Helsinki, Finland--looking forward to meeting with President Putin tomorrow," Trump tweeted. "Unfortunately, no matter how well I do at the Summit, if I was given the great city of Moscow as retribution for all of the sins and evils committed by Russia over the years, I would return to criticism that it wasn't good enough--that I should have gotten Saint Petersburg in addition!"

"Much of our news media is indeed the enemy of the people and all the Dems know how to do is resist and obstruct!" Trump added. "This is why there is such hatred and dissension in our country--but at some point, it will heal!"
Source: AOL News on Twitter posting by 2018 Trump Administration , Jul 15, 2018

We don't worship government; we worship God
TRUMP: America has always been the land of dreams because America is a nation of believers. When the Pilgrims landed in Plymouth, they prayed. When the founders wrote the declaration of independence, they invoked our creator four times, because in America we don't worship government, we worship God. That is why our elected officials put their hands on the bible and say "so help me God" as they take the oath of office. It is why our currency proudly declares "in God we trust". And it's why we proudly proclaim that we are one nation under God, every time we say the Pledge of Allegiance.
Source: The Faith of Donald J. Trump, by Brody & Lamb, p.302-3 , Feb 3, 2018

Trump made a profit from his 2016 campaign
For the 2016 run, a large share of Trump's campaign money was spent paying himself for the use of his Boeing 757 as well, in addition to his smaller jet, his helicopter, his Trump Tower office space, and other services supplied by Trump businesses. By law, Trump must pay charter rates for his aircraft and market prices for services from his other businesses. This anticorruption law was designed to prevent vendors from underpricing services to win political favors-- a legacy of a time when no one imagined that a man of Trump's presumed immense wealth would buy campaign services from himself. In 2016, the law perversely ensured that Trump made a profit from his campaign for the goods and services he bought from the Trump Organization.
Source: The Making of Donald Trump, by David Cay Johnston, p. XIII , Nov 14, 2017

FactCheck: Removed more regulations than other presidents
TRUMP: In our drive to make Washington accountable, we have eliminated more regulations in our first year than any administration in history.

Is that true? Washington Post Fact-Check: One possible measurement is regulations withdrawn, determined from the OMB database, narrowed just to an administration's first sweep through the regulations:

    Bush: 181
    Obama: 156
    Trump: 469

Ronald Reagan also launched a major effort to rein in regulations. In June 1981, Reagan issued a statement that said in the first three months, 181 regulations had been "withdrawn, modified or reviewed." [That was only 6 months in], but in any case, Reagan's number is lower than Trump's. So score one for Trump, at least in terms of raw numbers.
Source: Washington Post FactCheck on 2018 State of the Union address , Oct 12, 2017

Lifetime ban on becoming foreign lobbyists
We have placed a hiring freeze on non-military and non-essential Federal workers. We have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption by imposing a 5 year ban on lobbying by executive branch officials--and a lifetime ban on becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

For every new regulation, must eliminate two old ones
We have undertaken a historic effort to massively reduce job-crushing regulations, creating a deregulation task force inside of every Government agency; imposing a new rule which mandates that for every 1 new regulation, 2 old regulations must be eliminated; and stopping a regulation that threatens the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

Proud to work with McConnell to appoint conservative judges
Mitch and I worked closely on confirming not only Supreme Court Justices but also lower court nominees. With Mitch and the Republican Senator's support, I was proud to appoint 30 judges to the federal appellate courts to my first term-more than any other president in a comparable period since the federal circuit courts were established, more than 125 years ago. As of mid 2019, I had already named almost one out of every four circuit court judges. A historic judgement in just two and a half years.

The effort to transform the courts is one that will benefit the American people far into the future. It is a legacy I am immensely proud and one for which Mitch McConnell deserves great credit. Confirming judges has been a key part of making the past two and a half years one of the most productive and conservative periods in our nation's history.
Source: The Long Game, by Mitch McConnell, p.xv , May 31, 2016

Get rid of waste, fraud, & abuse in every single agency
Q: Your proposed tax cut would add $10 trillion to the nation's debt. You insist that you could make up for a good deal of that by cutting waste, fraud, & abuse.

TRUMP: Correct.

Q: Like what? And please be specific.

TRUMP: Department of Education. We're getting rid of Common Core. Department of Environmental Protection. We're going take a tremendous amount out. The waste, fraud, and abuse is massive.

Q: But your numbers don't add up. The total budget for the education department is $78 billion. The entire budget for the EPA, $8 billion. The deficit this year is $544 billion. Your numbers don't add up. You say that Medicare could save $300 billion a year negotiating lower drug prices. But Medicare total only spends $78 billion a year on drugs.

Q: But that doesn't really cut the federal deficit.

TRUMP: Of course it is. We are going to buy things for less money.
Source: 2016 Fox News GOP debate in Detroit Michigan , Mar 3, 2016

I wouldn't nominate my sister to Supreme Court
Senator Ted CRUZ: Last year, when talking about Supreme Court nominees, Donald said his sister--a judge who was put on the Court of Appeals by Bill Clinton--he said his sister would make a phenomenal Supreme Court Justice. His sister is a radical pro-abortion judge. She struck down New Jersey's ban on partial-birth abortion as irrational. That's an extreme position.

Q: Have you suggested your sister as a Supreme Court justice?

TRUMP: I have not.

Q: You said she would be great...

TRUMP: She's very smart.

Q: But you'd have to rule that out because she was your sister?

TRUMP: My sister is a brilliant woman. She was appointed by Ronald Reagan. He said appointed by Bill Clinton. She was elevated by Clinton to the Court of Appeals, a very high position, right under the Supreme Court. The reason she was elevated, she was an outstanding intellect and an outstanding judge. I don't even know what her views are on abortion. She is certainly not a radical anything; that's not her thing
Source: 2016 CNN GOP Town Hall in South Carolina , Feb 18, 2016

Delay, delay, delay on Supreme Court appointment
Q: The death of Justice Antonin Scalia leaves a vacancy on the Supreme Court. You've said that the President shouldn't nominate anyone in the rest of his term to replace Justice Scalia. If you were President, and had a chance with 11 months left to go in your term, wouldn't it be an abdication not to name a conservative justice with the rest of your term?

TRUMP: If I were President now I would certainly want to try and nominate a justice. Frankly, I'm absolutely sure that President Obama will try and do it. I hope that our Senate is going to be able to do something about it.

Q: So, just to be clear on this, you're OK with the President nominating somebody?

TRUMP: think he's going to do it whether or I'm OK with it or not. I think it's up to [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell, and everybody else to stop it. It's called delay, delay, delay.
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

I would build consensus, not use Executive Orders
Q: You promised that if Ford were to move a factory to Mexico, you would stop it or threaten them with a 35 percent tax or tariff on every car sold. Based on your understanding of the presidency, where do you derive that power?

TRUMP: I would build consensus with Congress. I don't like the idea of using executive orders like our president. I would build consensus, but consensus means hard work. You have to get them into the Oval Office and get them all together, and you have to make deals.
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

Hug 'em & kiss 'em & make deals, instead of executive orders
Sen. Ted CRUZ: On day one I will rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action Barack Obama has done.

Q: Mr. Trump, you literally wrote the book on making deals. How is a deal maker any different?

TRUMP: A good deal maker will make great deals, but we'll do it the way our founders thought it should be done. People get together, they make deals. Ronald Reagan did it with Tip O'Neill very successfully, you didn't hear so much about executive orders, if you heard about it at all. You have to be able to get a consensus. The deal with Iran, how bad a deal is that? It doesn't get any more amateurish than that. A good deal maker would never make a deal like that. With Congress, you have to get everybody in a room, and you have to get them to agree. But, you have to get them to agree what you want, and that's part of being a deal maker. You have to get people in, grab them, hug them, kiss them, and get the deal done. But, it's got to be the deal that you want.
Source: 2016 ABC Republican debate on eve of N.H. primary , Feb 6, 2016

Mutually profitable 2-way relationship with the media
The cost of a full-page ad in the New York Times can be more than $100,000. But when they write a story about one of my deals, it doesn't cost me a cent, and I get more important publicity. I have a mutually profitable two-way relationship with the media--we give each other what we need. And now I am using that relationship to talk about the future of America.

Many people believe I do well with the press. Maybe I do, sometimes, but anyone who believes I can use the media is absolutely wrong. Nobody can use the press. It's too big, too widespread.

If I do something wrong or make a mistake, they report it accurately. I've got no problem with that. The mistake bothers me, not the reporting.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 11 , Nov 3, 2015

Get rid of the regulations that are just destroying us
Donald Trump concluded his sold-out speech in Dallas with a call for reduced government regulation. He said, "We're going to fight hard, we're going to negotiate tough, and we're going to do fantastically well. We're going to put our people back to work. We're going to get rid of all these ridiculous--everything is so bad--we're going to get rid of the regulations that are just destroying us. You can't breathe. You cannot breathe. You are going to be--if I'm elected President--so proud of your country again. You're going to remember this evening and you're going to say to your children and everyone else, that you were part of a movement to take back this country. And we're going to make America great again."
Source: AmericanThinker 2015 coverage of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Sep 16, 2015

Speak simply & clearly, even when addressing Congress
Q: Your testimony to Congress didn't slip into jargon. Why do you think people use jargon when simple words will do?

DJT: Insecure people are often long-winded when they try to convince others that they are important or have special knowledge. I believe in getting to the point in the most direct way possible. It saves everyone's time and teaches you to distill information into sound bites that cannot be misinterpreted. I move quickly in business, so I don't have the time, the desire, or the need to pontificate or sound important. Oftentimes, this backfires. Being concise is more effective, but not necessarily easier. Sometimes I ask people to explain things to me in less than three sentences to make sure they've got it down. Condensing your thoughts is a great technique for both speaking and writing. Busy people work in sound bites; anything more can be a waste of time or cause confusion. I prefer to speak simply and clearly whether I'm addressing my employees or Congress.
Source: Trump 101, by Donald Trump, p.117-8 , Oct 20, 2006

Government scrutiny is greatest threat to American Dream
Most of us think the American Dream is a birthright, but without constant care and vigilance, it can and will be whittled down to nothing. The threatening agent is not some foreign power, but people who don’t understand the proper relationship between the public and private arenas. In other words, the greatest threat to the American Dream is the idea that dreamers need close government scrutiny and control. Job one for us is to make sure the public sector does a limited job, and no more.

In the 1970s in New York City, reckless regulators under Mayor Beame were running the show [resulting in] municipal bonds worth less than Confederate money. I learned from experiences [like that] just how hard it is for normal, sane, earnest Americans to make their dreams come true when they have to confront mule-headed, but powerful burons-a buron being defined as a cross between a bureaucrat and a moron. In my opinion, burons are opportunity destroyers. They’re guilty of what I call Dreamicide.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p. 44-45 , Jul 2, 2000

Government should do public works & safety & little else
Common sense tell us that the two basic principles of governing should work anywhere they are applied. First: Get government out of activities it can’t do well. (A list of thing government doesn’t do well is a very long list.)

Second: Get government back in the business of providing for public convenience (transportation, public works) and safety (police and firefighters), and make sure it does so efficiently. Then judge its efforts by visible, definable results and fine-tune as needed.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p. 60 , Jul 2, 2000

Loser pays all costs, and over-litigiousness stops
Litigation in the United States has gotten totally out of control. The saddest part of all is that this problem should be easy to solve, and everybody, including the American Bar Association, knows exactly what I'm talking about. The simple answer is this: The loser pays all costs related to the case including, but in no way limited to, the legal fees of the winning party.

If this legislation were enacted, it is my opinion that you would see our courthouses become totally efficient again, in that the caseload would drop by perhaps 70 to 80 percent. The judges and their staffs, who now work endlessly to catch up with needless motions made by nonsense lawyers, would be free to concentrate on the real cases, the ones that deserve to go to court. Everyone knows I'm right, but no politician wants to take on the wrath of the lawyers' lobbying groups. Somebody should--because that person could be assured of being in office forever.
Source: The Art of the Comeback, by Donald Trump, p.104-5 , Oct 27, 1997

Rebuilt Wollman Rink in 4 months; city failed for 6 years
For nearly seven years I watched from the window of my office as the city tried to rebuild Wollman Ice-Skating Rink in Central Park. At the end of that time, millions of dollars had been wasted and the job was farther from being completed than when the work began. They were all set to rip out the concrete and start over when I finally couldn’t stand it anymore, and I offered to do it myself. The job took 4 months to complete at a fraction of the city’s cost.

I discovered that the city’s incompetence had extended to every imaginable detail, large and small. One week after I’d made my deal to take over rebuilding the rink, a city report was released on mistakes made over the past six years. The report provided an astounding chronology of sloppiness, indecision, incompetence, and stupidity, but it came to absolutely no conclusions about who was responsible for the fiasco and what could be done to avoid such failures in the future. If it weren’t so pathetic, it would have been almost comical.
Source: The Art of the Deal, by Donald Trump, p.43 & 204 , Jul 2, 1987

Donald Trump on Voting and Campaign Reform
Anytime you have mail-in ballots there's massive cheating
Q: Don't you think it's racist to have to show your ID [to vote]?

TRUMP: They use anything not to show ID because voter ID is pretty simple. And we could go back and we should go back to all paper ballots, voter ID, same day voting. France did it. France had mail-in ballots and it was terrible. Anytime you have mail-in ballots, you're going to have massive cheating on your elections. Anytime. Not just the presidential election.

Q: Isn't that the whole point of them, so you can cheat?

TRUMP: Oh yeah, sure. It's the whole point. That's the whole point. They want to cheat. Yeah, they have to cheat because their policies are so bad that if they didn't cheat, they couldn't get elected. Who wants open borders? Who wants high taxes? Who wants high interest rates? 
Source: Tucker on X interview opposite 2023 GOP debate in Milwaukee , Aug 23, 2023

Only one election day, and limit absentee ballot access
I want to outline the steps that we must take to have an election system in this country that is honest, fair and accurate. We need one election day, not 45, 30, one day like it's been. And the only people that should be allowed to vote by mail are people that can be proven to be either very sick, or out of the country, or military where they can't do it. There should be a legitimate reason for someone to vote absentee. We should eliminate the insanity of mass and very corrupt mail-in voting.
Source: Remarks by Pres. Trump at the 2021 CPAC Conference , Feb 28, 2021

HR 1 election reform bill: this monster must be stopped
The Democrats are racing to pass HR 1. Their bill would drastically restrict political speech. Turn the Federal Election Commission into a partisan political weapon. It virtually eliminates voter ID requirements nationwide, effectively ends all registration deadlines. Requires States to give ballots to felons, automatically registers every welfare recipient to vote, and puts unaccountable unelected bureaucrats in charge of drawing congressional districts. This monster must be stopped.
Source: Remarks by Pres. Trump at the 2021 CPAC Conference , Feb 28, 2021

The only way I can lose is with massive voter fraud
Q: You have said, "The only way we lose this election is, if it is rigged." That is simply not true.

TRUMP: When I see unsolicited ballots, being given out by the millions, and thousands of them are dumped in dumpsters. You see ballots with the name Trump, military ballots, and they're dumped in garbage cans.Q: Your own FBI director says there is no evidence of widespread fraud.

TRUMP: He's not doing a very good job. All you have to do is pick up the papers every day. There's a tremendous problem.
Source: Second 2020 Presidential Debate/NBC Town Hall Miami , Oct 15, 2020

I'm urging my base to watch the polls on Election Day
I'm urging my supporters to go in to the polls and watch very carefully, because that's what has to happen. I am urging them to do it. As you know, today there was a big problem. In Philadelphia, they went in to watch. They're called poll watchers, a very safe, very nice thing. They were thrown out. They weren't allowed to watch. You know why? Because bad things happen in Philadelphia. Bad things. And I am urging my people. I hope it's going to be a fair election. If it's a fair election I am 100% on board. But if I see tens of thousands of ballots being manipulated, I can't go along with that. And I'll tell you why-
Source: First 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Sep 29, 2020

Elections have consequences; I'm elected for four years
TRUMP: Elections have consequences. We have the Senate, we have the White House, and we have a phenomenal nominee respected by all [Amy Coney Barrett for Supreme Court Justice]. Top, top academic; good in every way. Good in every way. We won the election and therefore we have the right to choose her, and very few people knowingly would say otherwise. The Democrats, they wouldn't even think about not doing it. The only difference is they'd try and do it faster. There's no way they would give it up. They had Merrick Garland, but the problem is they didn't have the election so they were stopped. A President is elected for four years. I'm not elected for three years.

BIDEN: The American people have a right to have a say in who the Supreme Court nominee is and that say occurs when they vote for United States Senators and when they vote for the President of United States. They're not going to get that chance now because we're in the middle of an election already. The election has already started.
Source: First 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Sep 29, 2020

Against funding post office due to mail-in ballots
Trump frankly acknowledged that he's starving the U.S. Postal Service of money in order to make it harder to process an expected surge of mail-in ballots. In an interview on Fox Business, Trump noted two funding provisions that Democrats are seeking in a relief package. Without the additional money, he said, the Postal Service won't have the resources to handle a flood of ballots from voters who are seeking to avoid polling places during the coronavirus pandemic.

[In response], "Postmaster General Louis DeJoy said the U.S. Postal Service is suspending operational changes, like removing mail processing equipment and collection boxes, until after the November election," the Wall Street Journal reports. From a statement: "To avoid even the appearance of any impact on election mail, I am suspending these initiatives until after the election is concluded."
Source: A.P. and Wall Street Journal on 2020 Trump Administration , Aug 13, 2020

Against funding post office due to mail-in ballots
Trump frankly acknowledged that he's starving the Postal Service of money in order to make it harder to process an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Trump noted two funding provisions that Democrats are seeking in a relief package. Without the additional money, he said, the Postal Service won't have the resources to handle a flood of ballots from voters who are seeking to avoid polling places during the coronavirus pandemic. (Aug. 13 AP & WSJ)

Postmaster General Louis DeJoy said the Postal Service is suspending operational changes, like removing mail processing equipment and collection boxes, until after the November election. The agency won't change retail hours at post offices across the country or close any mail-sorting facilities. Overtime hours will continue to be approved as needed to process mail.

From a statement: "To avoid even the appearance of any impact on election mail, I am suspending these initiatives until after the election is concluded." (Aug. 18, PoliticalWire)
Source: A.P. and PoliticalWire.com on impeaching Trump , Aug 13, 2020

Electoral College brings you to many states
The Electoral College is tougher for a Republican to win than the popular vote. At least me. I feel that I go to three places. I went to 19 or 21 states. I went to Maine four times because I wanted to get one. And I did get it. And that's the beauty of the Electoral College. The Electoral College brings you to many of the states in this country.
Source: NBC News Meet the Press 2019 interview , Jun 23, 2019

Opposes Johnson Amendment barring clergy endorsements
The next day in the Rose Garden, President Trump stood with religious leaders, including representatives from Little Sisters of the Poor, and signed the Presidential Executive Order Promoting Free Speech and Religious Liberty--looking to kickstart the fulfillment of his campaign promise to put an end to the Johnson Amendment and to ensure religious freedom.

In my Oval Office interview with President Trump, he recognized that executive action on the Johnson Amendment is only the beginning. "Now we want to go through Congress and make it permanent," Trump said. "But we've knocked it, and that was a horrible thing. They're not allowed to get involved, they're not allowed to have any say as to where the country has gone."
Source: The Faith of Donald J. Trump, by Brody & Lamb, p.308-309 , Feb 3, 2018

Many things can go wrong when early voting goes on too long
Donald Trump expressed support for restricting voting rights: stumping for Louisiana Senate candidate John Neely Kennedy, the president-elect recalled seeing extremely long lines in Florida during the state's early voting period ahead of Election Day, suggesting "many things can go wrong" with so much time allocated to allow citizens to vote.

"They had that long early voting in Florida. It's so long, and so many things can go wrong when you have that long period of time, right?" Trump told the crowd in Baton Rouge. "That long, long, long period. Used to be you'd have a day, you vote. Now you're going forever. Weeks and weeks."

The president-elect, who continually suggested throughout his campaign that the election was rigged against him, added that he's curious about what occurs when early voting precincts are "locked": "I wonder what happens during the evenings when those places are 'locked,' right?" Trump said, using air quotes.
Source: Politico.com coverage of 2016 Trump Transition , Dec 9, 2016

It's scary that people can vote without ID
Q: Should people be able to vote without photo identification?

Trump: "You don't have to have voter ID to now go in & vote and it's a little bit scary." Trump says without voter ID, "people are going to walk in, they are going to vote 10 times maybe. Who knows?"

Clinton called for universal and automatic voter registration and a 20-day (or more) period of early voting in every state, before every election. Clinton's speech identified the work of protecting and expanding voting rights as a critical part of her campaign. Clinton talked about the fact that African Americans consistently rank among the most deeply affected by the contours of Voter ID laws, must wait in the longest lines on Election Day and cast ballots at polling sites that very often house fewer machines and poll workers than other sites. That, Clinton told the crowd, "is no accident."
Source: 2016 AFA Action iVoterGuide on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Nov 8, 2016

There are millions who should not be registered to vote
Q: Will you accept the results of this election?

TRUMP: I will look at it at the time. I'm not looking at anything now. What I've seen is so bad. First of all, the media is so dishonest and so corrupt, and they've poisoned the mind of the voters. But unfortunately for them, I think the voters are seeing through it. If you look at your voter rolls, you will see millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote.

Q: But one of the prides of this country is the peaceful transition of power and that no matter how hard-fought a campaign is, that at the end of the campaign that the loser concedes to the winner, Are you saying you're not prepared now to commit to that principle?

TRUMP: What I'm saying is that I will tell you at the time. I'll keep you in suspense. OK?

CLINTON: That's horrifying. You know, every time Donald thinks things are not going in his direction, he claims whatever it is, is rigged against him. This is how Donald thinks.
Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate in Las Vegas , Oct 19, 2016

1980s: donated 30 times over campaign contribution limit
Trump's largesse [in political donations] caught the attention of a New York State commission examining possible political corruption. The commission called Trump to testify in March 1988. Under oath, Trump acknowledged that political donations had been a routine part of his business for nearly two decades. He gave so generously that he sometimes lost track of the amounts. When an attorney for the commission asked him to verify that he had given $150,000 to local candidates in 1985 alone, Trump responded, "I really don't know. I assume that is correct, yes."

The amount Trump donated in 1985 was equal to three times the annual limit for individual ($50,000), or thirty times higher than the cap for companies ($5,000), under New York state law. But Trump "circumvented" the law, a state commission found, by spreading the donations among eighteen subsidiary companies. Trump told the commissioners he didn't know "the exact reason" it was done this way; it was how his lawyers had said to do it.
Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p.273-4 , Aug 23, 2016

Maximum representation & maximum voter participation
Donald Trump is deploying a new talking point in his campaign that is rarely heard from the lips of Republican candidates: voter rights. In a Wall Street Journal op-ed, Trump portrayed himself as the people's choice candidate, seeking "maximum transparency, maximum representation and maximum voter participation." Trump has taken up the diction of voters' rights advocates. It has historically been a cause trumpeted almost exclusively by the Democratic party, since many disenfranchised voters are people of color and the poor. In fact, it's usually Republicans who are accused of committing disenfranchisement.

It's unlikely that Trump would be well-served in a general election by "empowering voters" and eliminating the barriers to voting that have been erected by Republican lawmakers. One study found that voter ID laws across 23 states would disenfranchise as many as 10 million eligible Latino voters; Trump is famously unpopular with Hispanic voters.
Source: Fortune Magazine, "Voter Rights", Claire Groden , Apr 15, 2016

Reject the elite election system; infuse popular will
On Saturday, April 9, Colorado had an "election" without voters. Delegates were chosen on behalf of a presidential nominee, yet the people of Colorado were not able to cast their ballots to say which nominee they preferred. Politicians furiously defended the system. "These are the rules," we were told over and over again--well, that's just the system and we should embrace it.

Let me ask America a question: How has the "system" been working out for you and your family? I, for one, am not interested in defending a system that for decades has served the interest of political parties at the expense of the people.

The only antidote to decades of ruinous rule by a small handful of elites is a bold infusion of popular will. On every major issue affecting this country, the people are right and the governing elite are wrong. The elites are wrong on taxes, on the size of government, on trade, on immigration, on foreign policy.
Source: Wall Street Journal Op-Ed by Donald Trump , Apr 14, 2016

SuperPACs are a disaster and cause dishonesty
I am the only campaign that's self-funding. I'm putting up 100% of my own money. And so far, I've put up less than anybody and I have the best results. Wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?

I will be putting up tremendous amounts of money. SuperPACs are a disaster. They're a scam. They cause dishonesty. And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people. And I'm not blaming these folks--well, I guess I could.
Source: GOP `Your Money/Your Vote` 2015 CNBC 1st-tier debate , Oct 28, 2015

Candidates should disavow PACs
I have disavowed all PACs. I had many people setting up PACs for me and we sent letters last week saying we don't want their money. I mean, we respect them, we love them, assuming it's all on the up and up, because I don't know these people who run PACs, I don't know what they do with everything. We disavowed all PACs, every one of them.
Source: CBS Face the Nation 2015 interview by Bob Schieffer , Oct 25, 2015

I'm not accepting any money from anybody
Q [to Jeb Bush]: Mr. Trump has repeatedly said that the $100 million you've raised for your campaign makes you a puppet for your donors. Are you?

BUSH: No. Absolutely not. The one guy that tried to get me to change my views on something--that was generous and gave me money--was Donald Trump. He wanted casino gambling in Florida.

TRUMP: I promise if I wanted it, I would have gotten it.

BUSH: No way. Believe me.

Q: What about politicians being controlled by donors?

TRUMP: Jeb made the statement, but I'm not only referring to him. A lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here. And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people. I am not accepting any money from anybody. Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country. I'm going to do the right thing.
Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

I give to politicians; and they give back: that's broken!
Q: You've donated to several Democratic candidates, Hillary Clinton included, Nancy Pelosi. You explained away those donations saying you did that to get business-related favors. And you said recently, quote, "When you give, they do whatever the hell you want them to do."

TRUMP: You'd better believe it.

Q: So what specifically did they do?

TRUMP: If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage I've given to, just so you understand, a lot of money. I will tell you that our system is broken. I gave to many people, before this, before two months ago, I was a businessman. I give to everybody. When they call, I give. And do you know what? When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me. And that's a broken system.

Q: What did you get from Hillary Clinton?

TRUMP: Well, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding. You know why? She didn't have a choice because I gave to her foundation.
Source: Fox News/Facebook Top Ten First Tier debate transcript , Aug 6, 2015

Two-term limit on NYC mayor is a terrible idea
Donald Trump pronounced the 2-term mayoral limit "a terrible idea, an artificial barrier." Terrible perhaps, but not artificial. Mike Bloomberg actually owed his job to that law, which had forced an obviously reluctant Rudy Giuliani to depart from City Hall. In 2005, when the city council toyed with a plan to extend the limit on everyone's service from 2 terms to 3, the people twice voted to ratify the limit.
Source: Bloomberg: Money, Power, Politics, by J.Purnick, p.179-186 , Sep 28, 2010

Ban soft money; but allow unlimited personal contributions
Our message to Congress should be clear. Take your soft money and. ban it. My second reform would be to allow unlimited personal contributions. The cynics will be steaming over that idea, but they know in their hearts that the philosophy behind it is untouchable, because it is based on personal choice. This puts at the heart of the process the individual American. But they are convinces that if individuals were allowed to give as much as they desired, guys like me would take over politics. They believe in personal freedom all right, so long as guys like Trump are kept in harness. Let’s be sensible. If a huge expenditure of personal funds were a guarantee of political victory, our current president would be either Steve Forbes or Ross Perot.

The third leg to the Trump political reforms is also simple and vital. I believe that Americans should know immediately who is giving what to whom. If we have full participation, we should also have full and fast disclosure.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.232-34 , Jul 2, 2000

Supports same campaign finance rules to all organizations.
Trump supports the CC survey question on Citizens United

The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'Removing campaign free speech restrictions that are placed on some organizations but not others' The Christian Coalition notes, "You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives."
Source: Christian Coalition Survey 16_CC16 on Nov 8, 2016


