 Would reinstitute family separation policy at the border
Q: Another immigration policy you had was the zero-tolerance immigration policy that separated families at the border. If you're re-elected, are you ruling out instituting that?

TRUMP: Well, when you have that policy, people don't come. If a family hears they're going to be separated, they love their family, they don't come.

Q: But, would you re-implement that if you were re-elected? Is that what you are saying?

TRUMP: Well, we have to save our country, alright?
Source: CNN Town Hall: interviews of 2024 presidential candidates , May 10, 2023

I will sign a colossal increase in ICE deportation offices
Millions of illegal aliens are stampeding across our border. Interior enforcement has been shut down. Everyone is overstaying their visas. My wonderful travel ban, it was so wonderful. Refugee numbers are through the roof and spies and terrorists are infiltrating our country, totally unchecked. When I'm back in the White House, the very first reconciliation bill that I will sign will be for a massive increase in border patrol and a colossal increase in the number of ICE deportation offices.
Source: Speech at the 2023 CPAC Conference in Maryland , Mar 4, 2023

Opposes Vatican view of multicultural global resettlement
An element of tension between Francis's world view and that of the United States (and that of an influential part of Christianity in America) is the theological and social understanding of the epochal crisis of our time: migrants and refugees. On this issue there is little difference, and indeed a visible convergence, between the visions of the U.S. Bishops and Francis, except for implications of the implicit support of some Bishops for Donald Trump. But there are deeply rooted cultural differences. For Francis, the church and the world are in a process of global resettlement. If the American establishment sees a world of settlers and a nation colonized by Christians, Francis looks and sees a world of re-settlers.

Francis's embrace of migrants and refugees has consequences for the meaning of religious freedom in a multicultural and multireligious world. From this point of view, between Francis's Vatican and Biden's White House there is a greater convergence than in the recent past.
Source: Biden and Catholicism, by Massimo Faggioli, p. 74-75 , Jan 20, 2021

FactCheck: Only 5 out 300 miles of wall are in new places
Trump said, "We have already built 300 miles of border wall."

FactCheck: As of August 7, some 275 miles of barriers had been constructed on the US border with Mexico -- but just 5 of those miles were erected in places where no barriers had existed before. 245 miles were erected in place of old barriers, while 25 miles of new "secondary wall" were erected to fortify primary barriers. The Trump-era replacement barriers are often much larger than the older ones they are replacing.
Source: CNN Fact-Check on 2020 Republican Convention speech , Aug 28, 2020

DACA phase-out legally correct but politically controversial
The Supreme Court blocked the Trump administration's attempt to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama-era program that protects immigrants brought to the US as children from deportation. After Trump came into office, the administration announced the program had been created "without proper authority" and that DACA would be phased out.

Federal courts said the administration had acted arbitrarily when phasing out the program. The 5-4 ruling emphasized that the administration failed to provide an adequate reason to justify ending the DACA program.

After the ruling was handed down, Trump retweeted a tweet featuring Justice Clarence Thomas' dissent. The decision is "an effort to avoid a politically controversial but legally correct decision," Thomas wrote. Thomas argued in his dissent that "the majority makes the mystifying determination that this rescission of DACA was unlawful. On the contrary, this is anything but a standard administrative law case."
Source: CNN on Trump Cabinet / 2020 SCOTUS rulings , Jun 18, 2020

Citizenship question on census for many decades; use in 2020
In 2019, the Trump administration attempted to add a "citizenship question" to the census survey. The backlash was immediate, spurring accusations that Trump wanted to have an undercount of people of color, namely Latinos. Defenders of the citizenship question argued that the accuracy of the census depended on knowing the legal stats of every American resident--documented or undocumented. They self-righteously asserted that the census has been asking the question for years. In 1950, the census shifted to asking the question on the long-form version of the census, which only went out to a sampling of Americans [but prior to 1950, it was on the short-form]. No census had used the citizenship question on the ubiquitous short-form in fifty years. Trump announced his intention of putting the controversial question on the 2020 census. Organizations and a number of states filed suit against the Trump administration.
Source: Our Time Is Now, by Stacey Abrams, p.170-1 , Jun 9, 2020

Countless Americans are killed every year by criminal aliens
Illegal immigration costs American taxpayers hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars a year, funds that could be used to improve our schools, roads, hospitals, and other vital services. Instead, Democrats want to take even more of your money to give illegal aliens free healthcare, free federal welfare, free education. They get treated better than they want to treat our military and our vets. And I stopped it. But it's crazy.

The Democrat Party's immigration policies empower bloodthirsty cartels that maim, murder, and torture; that smuggle and traffic innocent human beings; that flood our communities with poisonous drugs. The Left's immigration policies are not compassionate; they are heartless, merciless, and cruel. Countless Americans are killed every year by criminal aliens. These are illegal aliens that come in, and they are, in many cases, very bad people.
Source: Remarks by President Trump at the 2020 CPAC Conference , Feb 29, 2020

Didn't start family separation but ended it
On family separation at the border: This has been happening long before I got there. What we've done is ended separation. Under President Obama you had separation. I was the one that ended it. We're doing a fantastic job under the circumstances. The Democrats are holding up the humanitarian aid. If the Democrats would change the asylum laws and the loopholes, which they refuse to do because they think it's good politics, everything would be solved immediately. But they refuse to do it.
Source: NBC News Meet the Press 2019 interview , Jun 23, 2019

Cut off aid $700M to Central American Northern Triangle
After months of threats, President Donald Trump has officially taken steps to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador--the three countries in the "Northern Triangle" of Central America that are the origin point for the current unprecedented wave of family migration to the United States. The State Department acknowledged in a statement that it had notified Congress it was cutting off aid from past years (fiscal years 2017 and 2018) to the three countries. An estimated $700 million in aid will be affected by the cutoff.

It's still not clear exactly how the aid cutoff is going to work. According to the Washington Post, embassy officials didn't know whether the cutoff applied only to money that hadn't yet been designated for particular contracts with nongovernmental organizations or whether they were actually supposed to cancel existing contracts that had already been signed and implemented.
Source: Dara Lind, Vox.com, on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Apr 1, 2019

FactCheck: border mayors claim towns are secure & safe
NM Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham has ordered the majority of National Guard troops deployed at her state's Southern border to withdraw, condemning what she called a "charade of border fear-mongering" by President Trump. "I reject the federal contention that there exists an overwhelming national security crisis at the Southern border," Lujan Grisham said.

In its fact check of Trump's State of the Union speech, NPR relayed these assessments: "As for the 'state of our Southern border,' mayors along the Southwest border consistently say that their communities are among the safest in the nation. McAllen TX Mayor Jim Darling asserted that his city is the 3rd safest in Texas, according to FBI crime statistics, and 7th safest in the nation. 'Send social workers to process the asylum-seekers, not soldiers,' Darling said. Eddie Trevino, Cameron County judge in Brownsville, added, 'It is a misconception that the border is insecure. There is no Central American invasion. This is a manufactured crisis.' "
Source: NPR Fact-Check on 2019 State of the Union address , Feb 6, 2019

Powerful wall in San Diego stopped nearly all crossings
My Administration has sent to the Congress a commonsense proposal to end the crisis on our southern border. It includes humanitarian assistance, more law enforcement, drug detection at our ports, closing loopholes that enable child smuggling, and plans for a new physical barrier, or wall, to secure the vast areas between our ports of entry. In the past, most of the people in this room voted for a wall--but the proper wall never got built. I'll get it built.

This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier--not just a simple concrete wall. It will be deployed in the areas identified by border agents as having the greatest need, and as these agents will tell you, where walls go up, illegal crossings go way down.

San Diego used to have the most illegal border crossings in the country. In response, and at the request of San Diego residents and political leaders, a strong security wall was put in place. This powerful barrier almost completely ended illegal crossings.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

ICE guards dangerous southern border against criminal aliens
Not one more American life should be lost because our Nation failed to control its very dangerous border. In the last 2 years, our brave ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 killings.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

End birthright citizenship, despite 14th amendment
Trump is planning on issuing an executive order that would revoke birthright citizenship, a decision that will almost certainly set off a major legal battle given that birthright citizenship is protected by the 14th amendment.

"It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment. Guess what? You don't," Trump said. "You can definitely do it with an act of Congress, but now they're saying I can do it just with an executive order. We're the only country in the world where a person comes in, has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen of the US for 85 years with all of those benefits. It's ridiculous, and it has to end."

An historian explained that guaranteeing automatic citizenship was the intention of the men who drafted the 14th amendment: "Read the debate in the US Senate, Jan. 30, 1866. The framers clarified that children born in the U.S. were citizens regardless of the immigration status of their parents."
Source: Salon.com on 2018 Trump Administration, "Birthright" , Oct 30, 2018

Melania's parents & Trump's grandparents did chain migration
Melania Trump's immigration attorney criticized the president's "unconscionable" demonizing of "chain migration." Attorney Michael Wildes praised the program of family reunification that helped family members of both the first lady and Donald Trump settle in America.

The first lady's parents, Viktor and Amalija Knavs, became American citizens this week thanks to the program. Trump's own grandfather, Friedrich Trump of Germany, and his Scottish-born mother, Mary Anne MacLeod, followed their siblings into this country.

"Calling this 'chain migration' is really outside of the ethos of what was intended," Wildes said. "This whole notion of chain migration is actually a beautiful bedrock of immigration law and policy called family reunification." The host played clips of the president calling chain migration "horrible, horrible," and a "disaster." "You bring one person in, and you end up with 32 people," the president said in one of the clips. "We have to end chain migration."
Source: Huffington Post on 2018 Trump Administration , Aug 11, 2018

Opposes Catch-&-Release laws; throw criminal aliens in jail
With our foreign partners we have helped charge or arrest more than 4,000 members of the savage gang, MS-13. They don't like guns. You know why? They're not painful enough. These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces, and they want them to suffer. And we take them into our country. Because our immigration laws are so bad, and when we catch them, it is called "catch and release." We have to, by law, catch them and then release them. Catch and release. And I can't get the Democrats and nobody has been able to for years to approve common-sense measures that when we catch these animal killers, we can lock them up, and throw away the keys. In 2017, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 100,000 criminal aliens who have committed tens of thousands of crimes. And, believe me, these are great people. They cannot--the laws are just against us. They're against safety. They don't make sense.
Source: Speech at the 2018 CPAC Convention , Feb 23, 2018

So proud I got the dialogue started on illegal immigration
[Trump was asked] about the statement he made one month earlier: "Don't you feel you went to far in what you call Mexicans coming across the boarder?"

"Not at all. No, not at all." Trump said again to applause.

Two things. I am so proud of the fact that I got a dialogue started on illegal immigration. And people in the media, in all fairness, they were very rough on me that first week, and now many of them have apologized to me. And almost everybody, because it turned out I was right. Beautiful Kate who was shot by an illegal who was here five times, and they couldn't do anything about it, and believe me, Mexico kept pushing him back, because they didn't want him. Believe me, that's true. And now everybody is saying Trump was right. But I tell you, I took a lot of abuse.
Source: The Faith of Donald J. Trump, by Brody & Lamb, p.148 , Feb 3, 2018

Americans are DREAMers too; pass a bipartisan compromise
The United States is a compassionate nation. We are proud that we do more than any other country to help the needy, the struggling, and the underprivileged all over the world. But as President, my highest loyalty, my greatest compassion, and my constant concern is for America's children, America's struggling workers, and America's forgotten communities.

So tonight, I am extending an open hand to work with members of both parties--Democrats and Republicans. My duty is to defend Americans--to protect their safety, their families, their communities, and their right to the American Dream. Because Americans are dreamers too.

In recent months, we met extensively with both Democrats and Republicans to craft a bipartisan approach to immigration reform. Based on these discussions, we presented the Congress with a detailed proposal that should be supported by both parties as a fair compromise. [OnTheIssues note:"DREAMers" refers to DACA immigrants, who arrived in the US as minors, under the DREAM Act].
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

Four pillars to a fair compromise, including 1.8M DREAMers
Here are the four pillars of our bipartisan immigration reform package:

    Generously offer a path to citizenship for 1.8 million illegal immigrants who were brought here by their parents at a young age.
    Fully secure the border. That means building a wall on the Southern border. Crucially, our plan closes the terrible loopholes exploited by criminals and terrorists to enter our country--and it finally ends the dangerous practice of "catch and release."
    End the visa lottery, and move
    Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

    Protect America by banning refugees from terrorist countries
    The Trump administration today announced a new Muslim ban executive order entitled "Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry". [The original Jan. 2017 order reduces to 50,000 the annual number of refugees allowed from 7 Muslim countries, and sets the number allowed from Syria to zero. After a court found that unconstitutional, the March 2017 order replaced the list of 7 countries with Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen, for 90 days]. The director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project had this reaction:

    "The Trump administration has conceded that its original Muslim ban was indefensible. Unfortunately, it has replaced it with a scaled-back version that shares the same fatal flaws. The only way to actually fix the Muslim ban is not to have a Muslim ban. Instead, Pres. Trump has recommitted himself to religious discrimination. The changes the Trump administration has made completely undermine the bogus national security justifications the president has tried to hide behind.
    Source: ACLU Fact-Check of Trump Administration promises & actions , Mar 6, 2017

    New agency VOICE: Victims of Immigrant Crime Engagement
    I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American Victims. The office is called VOICE--Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement. We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests.

    Joining us in the audience tonight are very brave Americans whose government failed them. Jamiel Shaw's 17-year-old son was viciously murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member, who had just been released from prison. The husbands of Susan Oliver and Jessica Davis--Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver and Detective Michael Davis--were slain in the line of duty in California, viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record and two prior deportations.

    To Jamiel, Susan and Jessica: I want you to know--we will never stop fighting for justice. Your loved ones will never be forgotten, we will always honor their memory.
    Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

    Deporting drug dealers, murderers, and "bad dudes"
    And remember, we are getting the bad ones out. These are bad dudes. We're getting the bad ones out, OK? If you watch these people, it's like "gee, that's so sad." We're getting bad people out of this country, people that shouldn't be whether it's drugs or murder or other things. We're getting bad ones out, those are the ones that go first and I said it from day one. Basically all I've done is keep my promise.
    Source: Time magazine, "Trump speech at CPAC 2017" , Feb 24, 2017

    Throw immigrant criminals out of U.S. and keep them out
    We are also going to save countless American lives. As we speak today, immigration offers are finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminal aliens and throwing them the hell out of our country. And we will not let them back in. They're not coming back in, folks. They do, they're going to have bigger problems than they ever dreamt of.

    I'm also working with the Department of Justice to being reducing violent crime. I mean, can you believe what's happening in Chicago as an example? Two days ago, seven people were shot and I believe killed. Seven people, seven people, Chicago, a great American city, seven people shot and killed. We will support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
    Source: Speech at the 2017 CPAC Convention , Feb 24, 2017

    Amnesty is unfair to people waiting on line for years
    Clinton wants to give amnesty, which is a disaster and very unfair to all of the people that are waiting on line for many, many years. We need strong borders. In the audience tonight, we have four mothers whose children have been killed, brutally killed by people that came into the country illegally. You have thousands of mothers and fathers and relatives all over the country. They're coming in illegally. Drugs are pouring in through the border. We have no country if we have no border.
    Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate in Las Vegas , Oct 19, 2016

    We have some bad hombres here; I'll get them out
    I was up in New Hampshire the other day. The single biggest problem is heroin that pours across our southern border. It's just pouring and destroying their youth. It's poisoning the blood of their youth and plenty of other people. We have to have strong borders. We have to keep the drugs out of our country. We are getting the drugs, they're getting the cash. We need strong borders. We cannot give amnesty. I want to build the wall. We have some bad hombres here, and we're going to get them out.
    Source: Third 2016 Presidential Debate in Las Vegas , Oct 19, 2016

    Border agents endorsed me because I understand the border
    We have many criminal illegal aliens. When we want to send them back to their country, their country says we don't want them. In some cases, they're murderers and drug lords. And they don't want them. Clinton as secretary of state said "That's OK, we can't force it into their country." I'm going to force them right back into their country. They're murderers and some very bad people. The Border Patrol agents, 16,500, just recently endorsed me, and they endorsed me because I understand the border.
    Source: Second 2016 Presidential Debate at WUSTL in St. Louis MO , Oct 9, 2016

    People pour into US and citizens lose jobs
    We're losing our jobs. People are pouring into our country. The other day, we were deporting 800 people. And perhaps they passed the wrong button, or perhaps worse than that, it was corruption, but these people that we were going to deport for good reason ended up becoming citizens. Now it turns out it might be 1,800, and they don't even know.
    Source: First 2016 Presidential Debate at Hofstra University , Sep 26, 2016

    10-point plan: wall; zero tolerance; biometrics; E-Verify
        We will build a great wall along the southern border. And Mexico will pay for it.
        We are going to end catch and release.
        Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. Zero. They don't come in here. We're going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers. We're also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents.
        Block funding for sanctuary cities. No more funds.
        Cancel unconstitutional executive orders and enforce all immigration laws.
        Suspend issuance of visas to any place where adequate screening cannot occur.
        Ensure that other countries take their people back when they are deported.
        We will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system which we need desperately. The politicians are all talk, no action, never happens.
        Turn off the jobs and benefits magnet. We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law.
        Reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers.
    Source: Ballotpedia.org on Campaign speech in Phoenix Arizona , Aug 31, 2016

    1885: grandfather Friedrich was illegal German emigrant
    Friedrich, Donald Trump's grandfather-to-be, was born on March 14, 1869. Friedrich saw no future in Germany & joined the stream of Germans looking for a better life in the US. Friedrich arrived in New York on Oct. 19, 1885. Immigration records list his occupation as "farmer" and his name as "Friedrich Trump," [Americanizing it from "Drumpf"]. He was sixteen years old.

    But Friedrich's departure ran afoul of German law. A three-year stint of military service was mandatory, and to emigrate, boys of conscription age had to get permission. The young barber didn't do so, resulting in a questionable status that would undermine any future prospect of return: Friedrich Trump was an illegal emigrant. Luckily, US officials didn't care about the circumstances under which he left Germany. US Immigration law at the time granted Germans preferred status. Friedrich was one of about a million Germans who immigrated to the United States in 1885, more than had ever before come in one year.
    Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p. 23 , Aug 23, 2016

    Vatican has massive walls; Pope is wrong about open borders
    Trump got into a scuffle with Pope Francis. Aboard his plane after a trip to Mexico, the pontiff had told reporters, "A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian." Trump heard the comment and "I immediately thought of the Vatican, with the massive walls, and I said, 'Well, wait a minute, he's got the bigger walls, he's got walls like you couldn't even dream of'." Trump issued a written response calling the pope's words "disgraceful," adding, "If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISIS's ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been president."
    Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p.323 , Aug 23, 2016

    We must stop illegal immigration; it hurts us economically
    He of the executive order, because nobody wants to listen to him, including the Democrats, so he just goes around signing executive orders. We have to stop illegal immigration. It's hurting us economically. It's hurting us from every standpoint. It's causing tremendous difficulty with respect to drugs and what that does to our inner cities.
    Source: Fox Business/WSJ Second Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

    351,000 criminal illegal aliens in our prisons
    In 2011, the Government Accountability Office reported that there were three million arrests that could be attributed to the incarcerated alien population, including tens of thousands of violent criminals. There were 351,000 criminal illegal aliens in our prisons--that number does not include the crime of crossing our borders. It costs us more than a billion dollars a year just to keep these people in prison.

    I understand that the vast majority of these people are honest, decent, hardworking people who came here to improve their own lives and their children's lives. Nonetheless, illegal immigration has to stop. A country that can't protect its borders isn't a country. We are the only country in the world whose immigration system places the needs of other nations ahead of our own. There is a word to describe people who do that: fools.
    Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 21-2 , Nov 3, 2015

    Cut off federal funds to sanctuary cities
    We have to cut off federal grants to sanctuary cities--those places that refuse to cooperate with federal law enforcement and actually abet criminal behavior--we have to end them. I repeat, we either are a nation of laws or we're not.

    We also need to do what is necessary to enforce our visa regulations. People get a visa and come here legally, and when that visa expires, many stay here illegally. If they get caught, nothing happens to them. That's got to change.
    Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 27 , Nov 3, 2015

    I don't care how they come in, if they come in legally
    Q: You said about Marco Rubio that he was [Facebook founder] Mark Zuckerberg's personal senator because he was in favor of the H1B visa.

    TRUMP: I never said that.

    Q: So this was an erroneous article the whole way around? My apologies.

    Q [after commercial break]: I found where I read that before. It was from the donaldjtrump.com website and it says, "Mark Zuckerburg's personal senator, Marco Rubio has a bill to triple H-1Bs that would decimate women and minorities." Are you in favor of H-1Bs or are you opposed to them?

    TRUMP: I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally. As far as the visas are concerned, if we need people they have--it's fine. They have to come into this country legally. We have a country of laws. It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.

    Source: GOP `Your Money/Your Vote` 2015 CNBC 1st-tier debate , Oct 28, 2015

    We're only country dumb enough for birthright citizenship
    Q: You say that babies born in the United States to undocumented immigrants should not any longer get automatic American citizenship; isn't that in the 14th Amendment?

    TRUMP: The 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars that it is wrong. It can be corrected with an act of Congress, but probably doesn't even need that. A woman gets pregnant. She's nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years? I don't think so. Mexico--and almost every other country anywhere in the world--doesn't have that. We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it. And this is not just with respect to Mexico--people are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby. The 14th Amendment [should] go through the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.
    Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

    Illegal immigrants populate many criminal gangs
    [First], I want to build a wall. Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside. They go, if I get elected. Gangs all over the place. We have a country of laws, they're going to go out, and they'll come back if they deserve to come back. If they've had a bad record, if they've been arrested, if they've been in jail, they're never coming back. Right now, we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it.
    Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

    This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish
    We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English. And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn't sound right to me. We have to have assimilation--to have a country, we have to have assimilation. I'm not the first one to say this. We've had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing. This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
    Source: 2015 Republican two-tiered primary debate on CNN , Sep 16, 2015

    Half of the undocumented residents in America are criminals
    What does Donald Trump believe? Immigration: No path to citizenship for undocumented workers. Allow more European immigration and a legal status to those graduating from U.S. colleges.

    In his January speech to the Iowa Freedom Summit, Trump called for securing the southern border and indicated that he believes half of the undocumented residents in America are criminals. In 2013 at CPAC, the businessman said Republicans should block any path to citizenship or voting status for undocumented immigrants but should expand legal immigration from Europe. In addition, Trump would give a legal status to foreign students who complete a degree at an American university.
    Source: PBS News Hour "2016 Candidate Stands" series , Jun 16, 2015

    We need strong borders; we need a wall
    Trump knocked former Florida governor Jeb Bush, calling him "weak on immigration." Trump specifically mentioned a view Bush espoused in a 2014 Fox News interview that immigrants cross the U.S.-Mexico border as an "act of love."

    "We need strong borders. We need a wall," Trump said, addressing his solutions to the immigration issue. "The king of building buildings, the king of building walls--none of them can build them like Donald Trump."
    Source: CBS News on 2015 Conservative Political Action Conf. , Feb 27, 2015

    Citizenship for illegal immigrants is a GOP suicide mission
    Donald Trump said the Republican party will lose elections if it reforms the nation's entitlement programs and will hand Democrats 11 million votes if Congress grants citizenship to illegal immigrants, likening the reform efforts to a "suicide mission." "The fact is 11 million people will be voting Democratic. You can be out front. You can be the spearhead. You can do whatever you want to do, but every one of those 11 million people will be voting Democratic," he said. "It is just the way it works."

    "You have to be very, very careful, because you could say that to a certain extent the odds aren't looking so great for Republicans, that you are on a suicide mission," he said. "You are just not going to get those votes."
    Source: 2013 Conservative Political Action Conf. in Washington Times , Mar 15, 2013

    351,000 illegal aliens are in our prisons; costing $1.1B
    America's prisons house 351,000 criminal aliens who committed a crime after having already broken the law by entering American illegally. Making taxpayers pay for 351,000 criminals who should never have been here in the first place is ridiculous. The annual price tag to incarcerate these thugs is $1.1 billion. And get this: criminal aliens have an average of seven arrests. That's at least seven crimes committed against American citizens by each of these criminals who should never have been allowed to cross our borders.

    One out of every three federal prison inmates is a Latino, and three quarters of these are here illegally.
    Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p.136 , Dec 5, 2011

    Anchor babies were NEVER the intent of the 14th Amendment
    The root cause of all the welfare payments to illegal aliens is the so-called "anchor baby" phenomenon, which is when illegal immigrant mothers have a baby on American soil. The child automatically becomes an American citizen, Though this was NEVER the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment, which states, "All citizens born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and the state wherein they reside." The clear purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment, ratified in 1868, three years after the end of the Civil War, was to guarantee full citizenship rights to now emancipated former slaves. It was not intended to guarantee untrammeled immigration to the United States.
    Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p.140-141 , Dec 5, 2011

    Control borders; even legal immigration should be difficult
    America is experiencing serious social and economic difficulty with illegal immigrants who are flooding across our borders. We simply can’t absorb them. It is a scandal when America cannot control its own borders. A liberal policy of immigration may seem to reflect confidence and generosity. But our current laxness toward illegal immigration shows a recklessness and disregard for those who live here legally.

    The majority of legal immigrants can often make significant contributions to our society because they have special skills and because they add to our nation’s cultural diversity. They come with the best of intentions. But legal immigrants do not and should not enter easily. It’s a long, costly, draining, and often frustrating experience-by design. I say to legal immigrants: Welcome and good luck.

    It comes down to this: we must take care of our own people first. Our policy to people born elsewhere should be clear: Enter by the law, or leave.
    Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p.143-45 , Jul 2, 2000

    Donald Trump on Mexico
    The first thing I would do is seal the border good and tight
    I had the strongest border in the history of our country, and I built almost 500 miles of wall. I had another 200 that I was going to build. It's like water, it seeks. We're going to build another 200. We built it, it was all set to go, all they had to do is install it. That's when I found out, I said, "I think these people actually want open borders." The first thing I would do would be, I would seal up the border good and tight, except for people that want to come in legally.
    Source: Tucker on X interview opposite 2023 GOP debate in Milwaukee , Aug 23, 2023

    We will build the wall; and complete it in three weeks
    The wall will be quickly completed. We will build the wall, complete the wall in three weeks. It took two and a half years on the wall, two and a half years to win all of the litigation, over 11 lawsuits they threw at us, and we have just about finished, and I said, they can't be serious. They don't want to close up the little loops, but nobody ever had a border so secure as the border that we have. We will be sealed good and tight, except for people coming into our country legally.
    Source: Speech at the 2022 CPAC Conference in Orlando FL , Feb 26, 2022

    FactCheck: border wall 52 new miles, plus rebuilt 406 miles
    [CNN Town Hall transcript]: Q: COLLINS: Some of your Republican rivals have criticized your for not finishing the border wall.

    TRUMP: I did finish the wall. I built the wall.

    Q: You didn't finish the wall. It was only about 52 miles of new wall.

    TRUMP: I built hundreds of miles of wall and I finished it, and then I said, "we have to build some more because there are areas like water going through a dam." You close up one and they come in through another. And we started another 100 miles of wall.

    USNWR Fact Check: Before Biden stopped new construction on the wall, the Trump administration had built 458 miles of what it dubbed "border wall system" [out of 1,954 miles of the US-Mexico border]. The vast majority of the 458 miles were constructed in places where some kind of barrier already existed, but most of the preexisting structures were far less imposing than the new wall and included fencing and rudimentary technical barriers.
    Source: US News & World Report on CNN Town Hall (2024 candidates) , Feb 7, 2022

    Border is the single greatest disaster in American history
    Now the Biden administration has turned the border into the single greatest disaster in American history, and perhaps in world history. Nobody's ever seen a border like this. Other countries don't have a border like this. Illegal border crossings are up over 1,000% from last year.

    For the last three months in a row, more illegal alien minors have arrived than any other month in United States states history.
    Source: Speech transcript from 2021 CPAC Conference , Jul 11, 2021

    Working very hard to reunite 500+ kids with their parents
    Q: Your administration separated children from their parents at the border, at least 4,000 kids. You've reversed your policy, but the US can't locate the parents of more than 500 children. So how will these families ever be reunited?

    TRUMP: Children are brought here by coyotes and lots of bad people, cartels. We now have as strong a border as we've ever had. And we let people in, but they have to come in legally.

    Q: But how will you reunite these kids with their families, Mr. President?

    TRUMP: They used to say I built the cages, and then it was determined they were built in 2014. That was [Biden]. They built cages.

    Q: Do you have a plan to reunite the kids with their families?

    TRUMP: Yes. We're working on it. We're trying very hard. But a lot of these kids come out without the parents. They are so well taken care of. They're in facilities that were so clean.

    Q: But some of them haven't been reunited with their families.

    TRUMP: But just ask one question. Who built the cages?
    Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

    Catch-&-release was a disaster; only low-IQ people came back
    Catch and release is a disaster. A murderer would come in. A rapist would come in. We would take their name. We have to release them into our country. And then you say they come back. Less than 1% of the people come back. We have to send ICE out and Border Patrol out to find them. We would say, "Come back in two years, three years. We're going to give you a court case. They never come back. Those with the lowest IQ, they might come back, but there are very, very few.
    Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

    Cut immigration to protect Americans from infected Mexicans
    Because of the pandemic, much changed on the immigration front. Mexico is heavily infected, as you know. And we've made it very, very difficult to come in because of the pandemic, and other reasons, and crime. But we have a very strong border right now, and we have to keep it that way. But we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in through a merit system, and they have to come in legally. What happened is because of the pandemic, we have to be extra cautious.
    Source: Second 2020 Presidential Debate/NBC Town Hall Miami , Oct 15, 2020

    Wall is working beyond our wildest expectations
    In perhaps no area did the Washington special interests try harder to stop us than on my policy of pro-American immigration. But I refused to back down -- and today America's borders are more secure than EVER before. We ENDED catch-and-release, stopped asylum fraud, took down human traffickers who prey on women and children, and we have deported 20,000 Gang Members and 500,000 Criminal Aliens. The Wall will soon be complete, and it is working beyond our wildest expectations.

    We will BAN deadly Sanctuary Cities, and ensure that federal healthcare is protected for American Citizens -- not illegal aliens. We will have strong borders, strike down terrorists who threaten our people, and keep America OUT of endless and costly foreign wars.
    Source: Speech at 2020 Republican National Convention , Aug 28, 2020

    Coronavirus: Border security is also health security
    Border security is also health security. In our efforts to keep America safe, my administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to control our borders and protect Americans from the coronavirus. Came from China. In the early stages of the foreign outbreak, I ordered sweeping travel restrictions to prevent uncontrolled spread of this disease. Not only did we do it, but I did it very early. And that decision has been now given very good grades, like an A-plus- plus-plus.
    Source: Remarks by President Trump at the 2020 CPAC Conference , Feb 29, 2020

    Use threat of tariffs to get Mexico's cooperation
    Mexico has been absolutely terrific for the last four days. They're apprehending everybody. Yesterday, they apprehended 1,400 people. The day before, it was 1,000. If they continue that, everything will be fine. If they don't, we're going to tariff their cars at 25 percent.

    The system is full. We can't take you anymore. Whether it's asylum, whether it's anything you want, it's illegal immigration, can't take you anymore.
    Source: PBS Newshour "System is full," on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Apr 5, 2019

    Restore integrity at borders instead of lawless chaos
    My Administration has answered the pleas of the American people for immigration enforcement & border security. By finally enforcing our immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions of dollars, and make our communities safer for everyone. We want all Americans to succeed--but that can't happen in an environment of lawless chaos. We must restore integrity and the rule of law to our borders.

    For that reason, we will soon begin the construction of a great, great wall along citizens.

    To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you this question: what would you say to the American family that loses their job or a loved one, because America refused to uphold its laws & defend its borders?
    Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

    Hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents on Mexican border
    Trump signed a burst of executive orders within just his first three weeks to undo many of President Barack Obama's regulatory policies. Here's an overview:
    Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements: Signed: Jan. 25, 2017
    The order is aimed at fulfilling one of Trump's key campaign promises--enhancing border security--by directing federal funding to construction of a wall along the Mexico-U.S. border. It instructs the secretary of homeland security to prepare congressional budget requests for the wall and to "end the abuse of parole and asylum provisions" that complicate the removal of undocumented immigrants.

    Other parts of the order call for hiring 5,000 more Border Patrol agents, building facilities to hold undocumented immigrants near the Mexican border and ending "catch-and-release" protocols, in which immigrants in the United States without documentation are not detained while they await court hearings.
    Source: NBC News on 2017 Trump Administration promises & actions , Feb 14, 2017

    We've been badly hurt by Mexico both at the border & on jobs
    I think if you saw what happened in Mexico the other day, where I went there, I had great relationships. I let them know where the United States stands. We've been badly hurt by Mexico, both on the border and with taking all of our jobs or a big percentage of our jobs. Look at the aftermath today where the people that arranged the trip in Mexico have been forced out of government. That's how well we did.
    Source: 2016 NBC Commander-in-Chief forum with Matt Lauer , Sep 7, 2016

    We have no borders; and yes, I am angry
    I'm very angry because our country is being run horribly and I will gladly accept the mantle of anger. Our military is a disaster. Our healthcare is a horror show. Obamacare, we're going to repeal it and replace it. We have no borders. Our vets are being treated horribly. Illegal immigration is beyond belief. Our country is being run by incompetent people. And yes, I am angry. And I won't be angry when we fix it, but until we fix it, I'm very angry.
    Source: Fox Business Republican 2-tier debate , Jan 14, 2016

    Ship millions back to Mexico, like Eisenhower did
    Q: Can we just send 5 million people back with no effect on economy?

    TRUMP: You are going to have to send people out. Look, we either have a country or we don't have a country. We are a country of laws. [Those who entered illegally are] going to have to go out and hopefully they get back. But we have no choice if we're going to run our country properly & if we're going to be a country.

    KASICH: If people think that we are going to ship 11 million people who are law-abiding, who are in this country, & somehow pick them up at their house & ship them out to Mexico, think about the families. Think about the children. It's a silly argument. It is not an adult argument. It makes no sense.

    TRUMP: Dwight Eisenhower, a great president, moved 1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the border. They came back. Moved them again beyond the border, they came back. Didn't like it. Moved them way south. They never came back. They moved 1.5 million out. We have no choice.
    Source: Fox Business/WSJ First Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

    Walls on borders work; just ask Israel
    We are a country of laws. We need borders. We will have a wall [on the Mexican border]. The wall will be built. The wall will be successful. And if you think walls don't work, all you have to do is ask Israel. The wall works, believe me. Properly done. Believe me. [OnTheIssues note: Trump refers to the "separation barrier" that Israel built surrounding the Palestinian areas of the West Bank. It has reduced terrorist attacks, but is controversial in the peace process].
    Source: Fox Business/WSJ First Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

    Mexico will pay for wall, but not through tariffs
    Q: You haven't told us how you're going to get Mexico to pay for the wall (on US-Mexico border).

    TRUMP: I'll tell you right now. We have a trade imbalance of $40 billion, $45 billion with Mexico a year. We give Mexico billions of dollars a year. The wall is going to cost $6 billion or $7 billion.

    Q: So tariffs?

    TRUMP: No, I'm not saying that. I'll get Mexico to pay for it one way or the other. I guarantee you that.
    Source: Meet the Press 2015 interview moderated by Chuck Todd , Nov 8, 2015

    Building 1,000-mile wall is possible, if we make commitment
    Nobody can build a wall like me. I will build a great wall on our southern border. It's probably about 1,000 miles we will need to secure with the new wall. There are people who say it can't be done, that it's not possible to build a wall 1,000 miles long. Except beginning more than 2,000 years ago the Chinese built a wall that eventually stretched almost 13,000 miles that could never be breached. It was a combination of massive walls, impassible trenches and ditches, and rugged natural terrain, as well as an estimated 25,000 watchtowers. Believe me, our wall- building technology has improved a lot in 2,000 years. What we don't have that the Chinese had is the commitment to do it. They understood the danger of leaving their border unprotected and they did something about it. We talk about it and do nothing.
    Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 23-4 , Nov 3, 2015

    I can get Mexico to pay for border wall; politicians can't
    Q: You're promising to build a wall and make another country pay for it?

    TRUMP: Right. We're going to build the wall; we're going to create a border. We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally. They are going to come in legally. And it's something that can be done. They built The Great Wall of China. That's 13,000 miles. Here, we actually need 1,000, because we have natural barriers. We can do a wall. We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall. We are going to have people come in, but they are coming in legally. And Mexico is going to pay for the wall, because Mexico--I love the Mexican people, I respect the Mexican leaders, but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders. And people say, "Oh, how are you going to get Mexico to pay?" A politician cannot get them to pay. I can.
    Source: GOP `Your Money/Your Vote` 2015 CNBC 1st-tier debate , Oct 28, 2015

    The border wall will be well-managed and built correctly
    Q: How is a Mexican wall even feasible?

    TRUMP: I'm telling you, it's called management. You can do this and we can expedite the good immigrants to come back in. And everybody wants that. But they have to come in legally. We have to be a country of laws and borders. We have wonderful Border Patrol people, but they're not allowed to do their job. I will get the best people to build this wall and we will do it properly and we will do it humanely and get the good ones back in.
    Source: ABC This Week 2015 interviews of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 23, 2015

    We need wall on Mexican border, but ok to have a door in it
    Q: You say that the Mexican government is sending criminals--rapists, drug dealers--across the border.

    TRUMP: If it weren't for me, you wouldn't even be talking about illegal immigration. This was not a subject that was on anybody's mind until I brought it up at my announcement. The fact is, since then, many killings, murders, crime, drugs are pouring across the border, our money going out and the drugs coming in. And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly. And I don't mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally. But we need to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out.
    Source: Fox News/Facebook Top Ten First Tier debate transcript , Aug 6, 2015

    Mexico & Latin America send us drugs, crime, and rapists
    Mexico is beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they're killing us economically. The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.

    When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists.

    And some, I assume, are good people. But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting. And it only makes common sense. They're sending us not the right people.

    It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably--probably--from the Middle East. But we don't know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening. And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.
    Source: 2015 announcement speeches of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Jun 16, 2015

    Build great wall on southern border; have Mexico pay for it
    I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I'll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.
    Source: 2015 announcement speeches of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Jun 16, 2015

    Triple-layered fence & Predator drones on Mexican border
    I am impressed with the success of the double- and triple-layered fence in places like Yuma, Arizona. The wall there is a serious 20-foot wall. It has three walls separated by 75-yard "no man's lands" for border agents to zoom up and down in vehicles. It also has cameras, radio systems, radar, and pole-topped lights. After the triple-layered fence was installed, the 120-mile stretch of the US-Mexican border known as the Yuma sector experienced a 72 percent plunge in illegal immigrant apprehensions.

    We need to be ready to build other kinds of fences, too. The point is that properly built walls work. We just need the political will to finish the job. And by the way, finishing the job will employ a lot of construction workers. Moreover, I call on Congress and the president to hire another 25,000 border patrol agents and give them the aerial equipment they need, such as Predator drones, to provide real-time aerial reconnaissance information to agents guarding the border wall.
    Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p.146-147 , Dec 5, 2011

    Donald Trump on Visa Rules
    We're going to have the largest deportation in US history
    It's not sustainable for our country. We have millions and millions of people here. It is not sustainable. Did you see in New York City with it getting the regular students out and they're putting migrants in their place? We are going to have the largest deportation effort in the history of our country. We're bringing everybody back where they came from. We have no choice. We have no choice.
    Source: Fox News Town Hall 2024 pre-Iowa caucus , Jan 10, 2024

    Don't give maniacs residency in our country
    Q: We invited Donald Trump to come tonight, but he declined to come. Trump recently promised if he's reelected to bring back and expand his program restricting immigration from Muslim countries. Here he is in Iowa on October 16th:

    Donald Trump: No longer will we allow dangerous lunatics, haters, bigots, and maniacs to get residency in our country. We're not going to let them stay here. If you empathize with radical Islamic, terrorists and extremists, you're disqualified. You're just disqualified.
    Source: NewsNation 2023 Republican primary debate in Alabama , Dec 6, 2023

    We want more people to come, via legal merit system
    Q: What will you do for our immigration system to make more people can become citizens and vote?

    TRUMP: We are doing something with immigration that I think is going to be very strong because we want people to come into our country. We want people to come into our country. We want them to come in--a lot of people--but we want them to come in through a legal system. Through a system that they work to come into our country. A merit system and we're working on something very hard right now. And in a very short time we're going to be announcing it. And I think it's going to have quite an impact. I think it's going to be something that actually will be popular for all.
    Source: ABC This Week: special edition 2020 Town Hall interview , Sep 15, 2020

    Mother participated in chain migration in 1930
    When Fred [Donald Trump's father] was 25 years old, he attended a dance where he met Mary Anne Mcleod, recently arrived from Scotland. According to family legend, he returned home, he told his mother that he met the girl he was going to marry.

    Mary [Donald Trump's mother] had been the youngest of ten in 1912 in the Outer Hebrides, located 40 miles off the coast of Scotland. Mary, one of six daughters, was encouraged to journey to America, where the opportunities were greater , and the men more plentiful.

    In 1930, in a classic example of mass migration, Mary boarded the RMS Transylvania in order to join two of her sisters who had already settled in the US. Despite her status as a domestic servant, as a white Anglo-Saxon, Mary would have been allowed into the country even under her son's new draconian immigration laws introduced nearly 90 years later. She turned 18 the day before her arrival in New York and met Fred not long after. Fred and Mary were married in 1936.
    Source: Too Much and Never Enough, by Mary Trump, p. 30 , Jul 14, 2020

    Why are we having people from sh--hole countries come here?
    Graham began walking through the plan, which included the money Trump asked for on the border security. It was not enough, Trump said, condescendingly. Graham said he was sure they could do more but this is where they started. And he mentioned 25,000 visas from mostly African countries. He turned to the visas in such places as Haiti and El Salvador because of Earthquakes, famine, and violence.

    "Haitians," Trump said. "We don't need more Haitian's." At that and mentioned of immigrants from African countries. "Why are we having all these people from sh--hole countries come here?" He had just met with the Prime Minister from Norway. Why not more Norwegians? Or Asians who could help the economy.
    Source: Fear: Trump in the White House, by Bob Woodward, p.320 , Sep 10, 2019

    Refugees can't come in; sorry, we're full
    With his recent speech before the Republican Jewish Coalition, Trump insinuated that American Jews have dual loyalties, specifically when he referred to Israeli Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu as "your prime minister." Yet even more offensive was Trump's xenophobic rhetoric on immigration, uttered before an audience of Jews, an ethnic group that was victimized by immigration xenophobia during the Holocaust.

    Specifically, in referring to refugees seeking asylum in America from political persecution in their native lands, Trump stated, "You can't come in. Our country is full. What can we do? We can't handle any more. Our country's full. You can't come in, I'm sorry."

    These were literally the exact words antisemitic public officials used to justify America denying entry to European Jews fleeing Nazi extermination during the Holocaust.
    Source: InsiderNJ.com on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Apr 9, 2019

    Replace visa lottery with merit-based system
    TRUMP: [My immigration package] ends the visa lottery--a program that randomly hands out green cards without any regard for skill, merit, or the safety of our people. It is time to begin moving towards a merit-based immigration system--one that admits people who are skilled, who want to work, who will contribute to our society, and who will love and respect our country.

    Christian Science Monitor explanation:The president & his supporters appear to be defining merit as highly skilled, well-educated immigrants who speak English and can support themselves. But what about strawberry pickers? Those jobs are commonly performed by low-skilled immigrants. The administration points to countries such as Canada and Australia that have supply- oriented policies. These countries have long used point systems to qualify applicants, assigning them points for education, working age, employment, language, & other skills that determine their likelihood of assimilation and contribution to the economy.
    Source: Christian Science Monitor on 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

    Fact-check: End chain migration? It can't actually happen
    [My immigration plan] protects the nuclear family by ending chain migration. Under the current broken system, a single immigrant can bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives. Under our plan, we focus on the immediate family by limiting sponsorships to spouses and minor children.

    Politico.com Fact-Check: Family reunification has been the basis for immigration since 1965. Under this law, if you marry that guy you met while working in Shanghai, you can bring him home. And his 2-year-old. And when you'd like his parents to help with child care, you can bring them in too, after a few years. If we had a family immigration system without limits, this structure could theoretically lead to the dreaded chain migration. That Chinese spouse can petition for his sister, and her family, and so on. But the immigration system's waiting lists make chain migration a theory that doesn't really happen in practice. This is because each link in the chain takes years to complete. \
    Source: Politico.com FactCheck on 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 26, 2018

    H-1B visas help high-tech industry; we'll figure it out
    On December 14, a high-level delegation from Silicon Valley came to Trump Tower to meet the president-elect, though Trump had repeatedly criticized the tech industry throughout the campaign. Later that afternoon, Trump called Rupert Murdoch, who asked him how the meeting had gone.

    "Oh, great, just great," said Trump. "Really, really good. These guys really need my help. Obama was not very favorable to them, too much regulation. This is really an opportunity for me to help them."

    "Donald," said Murdoch, "for eight years these guys had Obama in their pocket. They practically ran the administration. They don't need your help."

    "Take this H-1B visa issue. They really need these H-1B visas."

    Murdoch suggested that taking a liberal approach to H-1B visas might be hard to square with his immigration promises. But Trump seemed unconcerned, assuring Murdoch, "We'll figure it out."
    Source: Fire and Fury, by Michael Wolff, p. 36 , Jan 5, 2018

    Revamp guest-worker program, even those used in Trump hotels
    Administration officials said Trump will direct the Departments of Labor, Justice, State, and Homeland Security to crack down on fraud and abuse in guest-worker programs by issuing new immigration rules.

    White House officials singled out the H-1B visa for "high-skilled" foreigners in the science and engineering industries as the priority for reform, but said a comprehensive review could lead to changes in other guest worker programs, including visas Trump's own company uses for foreign workers at his hotels, golf courses and vineyard.

    The officials said reform could first come through administrative changes, such as raising the visa application fees, adjusting the wage scale to more accurately reflect prevailing salaries in the tech industry, and more vigorously enforcing violations. It could also change the lottery system to give foreigners with U.S. master's degrees a leg up. The current worker visa program has been diluted as rules have gone unenforced, the officials said.
    Source: Washington Post on Trump Administration promises , Apr 17, 2017

    Merit-based immigration system instead of lower skills
    Protecting our workers means reforming our system of legal immigration. The current, outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers, & puts great pressure on taxpayers.

    Nations around the world, like Canada, Australia and many others--have a merit-based immigration system. It is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially. Yet, in America, we do not enforce this rule, straining the very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon.

    Switching away from this current system of lower-skilled immigration, and instead adopting a merit-based system, will have many benefits: it will save countless dollars, raise workers' wages, & help struggling families--including immigrant families--enter the middle class.

    I believe that real & positive immigration reform is possible, as long as we focus on the following goals: to improve jobs & wages for Americans, to strengthen our nation's security, & to restore respect for our laws.
    Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

    Let college grads stay but H-1B only if jobs can't be filled
    Q: Would you support any changes in immigration policy regarding scientists and engineers who receive their graduate degree at an American university?

    TRUMP: The issues brought up in your question are exactly what we should be addressing in immigration reform. If we allow individuals in this country legally to get their educations, we should let them stay if they want to contribute to our economy. It makes no sense to kick them out of the country right after they achieve such extraordinary goals.

    Q: What is your opinion of recent controversy over employment and the H1-B Visa program?

    TRUMP: We cannot allow companies to abuse this system. When we have American citizens and those living in the United States legally being pushed out of high paying jobs so that they can be replaced with "cheaper" labor, something is wrong. The H1-B system should be employed only when jobs cannot be filled with qualified Americans and legal residents.

    Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

    I take advantage of H-1B visas; but stop them
    Q: Your critics say your campaign platform is inconsistent with how you run your businesses, noting that you've brought in foreign workers instead of hiring Americans. Why should voters trust that you will run the country differently from how you run your businesses?

    TRUMP: Because nobody knows the system better than me. I know the H-1B. I know the H-2B. Nobody knows it better than me. I'm a businessman. These are laws. These are rules. We're allowed to do it. So I will take advantage of it; they're the laws. But I'm the one that knows how to change it.

    Q: So what would you do with H-1B visas?

    TRUMP: It's something that I frankly use and I shouldn't be allowed to use it. We shouldn't have it. Very, very bad for workers. And second of all, I think it's very important to say, well, I'm a businessman and I have to do what I have to do. When it's sitting there waiting for you, but it's very bad. It's very bad for our workers and it's unfair for our workers. And we should end it.
    Source: 2016 GOP primary debate in Miami , Mar 10, 2016

    Let the good ones come back in; that's not amnesty
    CRUZ: The people that get forgotten in this debate over immigration are the hardworking men and women of this country, millions of Americans who are losing their jobs. We have always welcomed legal immigrants, but I think it is a mistake to forgive those who break the law to allow them to become U.S. citizens, and that's why I've led the fight against granting citizenship to those here illegally.

    TRUMP: We have at least 11 million people that came in illegally. They will go out. Some will come back, the best, through a process. They have to come back legally. It may not be a quick process, but I think that's fair. They're going to get in line with other people.
    Source: 2016 CNN-Telemundo Republican debate on eve of Texas primary , Feb 25, 2016

    No apology for banning Muslims from entering America
    Q: Your comments about banning Muslims from entering the country created a firestorm. Is there anything you've heard that makes you want to rethink this position?

    TRUMP: No. (APPLAUSE) Look, we have to stop with political correctness. We have to get down to creating a country that's not going to have the kind of problems that we've had with people flying planes into the World Trade Centers, with the shootings in California, with all the problems all over the world. We have to find out what's going on [with Muslim immigrants]. I said temporarily. I didn't say permanently. And I have many great Muslim friends. And some of them, I will say, not all, have called me and said, "Donald, thank you very much; you're exposing an unbelievable problem and we have to get to the bottom of it." We have a serious problem. And we can't be the stupid country any more. We're laughed at all over the world.
    Source: Fox Business 2016 Republican 2-tier debate , Jan 14, 2016

    It's not fear of terrorist refugees; it's reality
    It's not fear and terror, it's reality. When I look at the migration, I looked at the line, I said, where are the women? It looked like very few women. Very few children. Strong, powerful men, and people are looking at that and they're saying what's going on? We can't let people come into our country and break our borders.
    Source: Fox Business Republican 2-tier debate , Jan 14, 2016

    Need to keep database of Muslim refugees
    Q: You did stir up a controversy with those comments about a database for all US Muslims--but are you now unequivocally now ruling out a database on all Muslims?

    TRUMP: No, not at all. I want a database for the refugees that come into the country. We have no idea who these people are. When the Syrian refugees are going to start pouring into this country, we don't know if they're ISIS, we don't know if it's a Trojan horse.

    And I definitely want a database and other checks and balances. We want to go with watchlists.

    Q: Just for the record, though, the statistics do show the majority of the refugees coming in are women and children.
    Source: ABC This Week 2015 interview on Syrian Refugee crisis , Nov 22, 2015

    Invite foreigners graduating from college to stay in US
    Our country's leaders are just so plan stupid. As an example, foreign students come over to our colleges, learn everything there is to learn about physics, finance, mathematics, and computers, and graduate with honors. They would love to stay in this country, but we don't allow them to. We immediately ship them back to their country to use all of the knowledge they learned at the best colleges in the United States back in their country rather than keep it here in ours.

    When we have gifted people in this country we should cherish them and let them stay. But instead we fling our arms wide open to the lowlifes, the criminals, the people who have no intention to contribute to our country.

    Wouldn't it be better if we invited foreign student graduating from our colleges to stay to build American companies, instead of foreign companies that will be wreaking havoc against Boeing, Caterpillar, and many other of our great American companies in the future?
    Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p.145 , Dec 5, 2011

    Limit new immigration; focus on people already here
    Trump was firm concerning restrictions in immigration. “I’m opposed to new people coming in,” he said. “We have to take care of the people who are here.”
    Source: nytimes.com/library/politics , Dec 10, 1999

    Supports additional border infrastructure.
    Trump supports the CC survey question on Border Infrastructure

    The Christian Coalition Voter Guide inferred whether candidates agree or disagree with the statement, 'Increase Border Security Including Additional Infrastructures' The Christian Coalition notes, `You can help make sure that voters have the facts BEFORE they cast their votes. We have surveyed candidates in the most competitive congressional races on the issues that are important to conservatives, but now we need you
    Source: Christian Coalition Survey 16_CC12 on Nov 8, 2016

    Vetoed ending national emergency at the Southern border.
    Trump voted NAY Joint Resolution on Proclamation 9844

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives: That the national emergency declared by the finding of the President on February 15, 2019, in Proclamation 9844 is hereby terminated.

    Proclamation 9844 issued by the president on Feb. 15, 2019: Declares a state of national emergency at the southern border to address the issues of illegal immigration and criminal trafficking into the US: `The current situation at the southern border presents a border security and humanitarian crisis that threatens core national security interests and constitutes a national emergency. The southern border is a major entry point for criminals, gang members, and illicit narcotics. The problem of large-scale unlawful migration through the southern border is long-standing, and despite the executive branch`s exercise of existing statutory authorities, the situation has worsened in certain respects in recent years. Because of the gravity of the current emergency situation, it is necessary for the Armed Forces to provide additional support to address the crisis.`

    Opposing the Proclamation (supporting the Resolution), ACLU press release, 2/15/2019 The ACLU issued the following statement upon filing a lawsuit: `By the president`s very own admission in the Rose Garden, there is no national emergency. He just grew impatient and frustrated with Congress, and decided to move along his promise for a border wall `faster.` This is a patently illegal power grab that hurts American communities and flouts the checks and balances that are hallmarks of our democracy.`

    Legislative outcome Passed House 245-182-5 roll #94 on Feb. 26; pass Senate 59-41 roll #49 on March 14; Vetoed by Pres. Trump; veto override failed, 248-181-3 (2/3 required), roll #127 on March 26
    Source: Congressional vote 19-HJR46 on Feb 26, 2019


