 Oil and gasoline and natural gas is cheaper, more powerful
They want windmills all over the place that ruin our fields and kill our birds and are very unreliable and are the most expensive energy ever developed. We want oil and gasoline and natural gas because it is cheaper, better and much more powerful. Under my leadership we will regain energy independence that we had three years ago. We were on our way to massive energy dominance.
Source: Speech at the 2023 CPAC Conference in Maryland , Mar 4, 2023

Wind power kills birds; solar can't run factories
BIDEN: The fastest growing industry in America is solar energy and wind. [Trump] thinks windmills causes cancer. It's the fastest growing jobs and they pay good prevailing wages, 45, 50 bucks an hour. We can grow and we can be cleaner if we go the route I'm proposing.

TRUMP: We are energy independent for first time. We don't need all of these countries that we had to fight war over because we needed their energy. We are energy independent. I know more about wind than you do. It's extremely expensive. Kills all the birds. It's very intermittent. It's got a lot of problems and they happen to make the windmills in both Germany and China and the fumes coming up, if you're a believer in carbon emission, the fumes coming up to make these massive windmills is more than anything that we're talking about with natural gas, which is very clear.

BIDEN: Find me a scientist who says that.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

Pursues "energy dominance" agenda, even during pandemic
During the partial government shutdown that started in December 2018 and became the longest in US history, the fossil fuel-friendly Trump administration plowed ahead with its "energy dominance" agenda. As about 800,000 federal workers went without paychecks, the Interior Department worked to boost oil & gas development in the Alaskan Arctic, processed fossil fuel drilling applications & permits, and even brought back dozens of furloughed employees to ensure offshore drilling activities continued.

Amid a global pandemic Trump and his team have prioritized fossil fuel production. The Interior Department is moving forward with fossil fuel lease sales, as the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management offered up 78 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico despite environmental groups' calls to halt the sales. A spokesman for the bureau said the event was "live-streamed with only a handful of BOEM workers," with bids submitted either by mail or at the bureau's New Orleans office.
Source: Mother Jones on Trump Administration , Mar 23, 2020

Green New Deal does not fulfill America's energy needs
Green New Deal--I encourage it. I think it's really something that they should promote. They should work hard on. It's something our country needs desperately. But I'll take the other side of that argument only because I'm mandated to. But they should stay with that argument. Never change. No planes. No energy. When the wind stops blowing, that's the end of your electric. Let's hurry up. "Darling, is the wind blowing today? I'd like to watch television, darling." No, but it's true.
Source: Speech at the 2019 CPAC Convention , Mar 2, 2017

EPA is killing energy companies; 1,000 years of clean coal
Q: What steps will your energy policy take to meet our energy needs, while at the same time remaining environmentally friendly and minimizing job loss for fossil power plant workers? A: The EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, is killing these energy companies. And foreign companies are now coming in buying our--buying so many of our different plants and then re-jiggering the plant so that they can take care of their oil. I'm all for alternative forms of energy, including wind, including solar, etc. But we need much more than wind and solar. Clinton wants to put all the miners out of business. There is a thing called clean coal. Coal will last for 1,000 years in this country. Now we have natural gas and so many other things because of technology. We have found over the last seven years tremendous wealth right under our feet. I will bring our energy companies back. They'll be able to compete. They'll make money. They'll pay off our national debt.
Source: Second 2016 Presidential Debate at Washington University , Oct 9, 2016

America invested in solar panels and it was a disaster
CLINTON: Some country is going to be the clean-energy superpower of the 21st century. Donald thinks that climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.

TRUMP: I did not--

CLINTON: I think it's real. I think science is real.

TRUMP: I do not say that.

CLINTON: And I think it's important that we deal with it, both at home & abroad. Here's what we can do. We can deploy a half a billion more solar panels. We can have enough clean energy to power every home. We can build a new modern electric grid. That's a lot of jobs; that's a lot of new economic activity.

TRUMP: She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company, our country. That was a disaster. They lost plenty of money on that one. Now, look, I'm a great believer in all forms of energy, but we're putting a lot of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is losing so much in terms of energy, in terms of paying off our debt. You can't do what you're looking to do with $20 trillion in debt.
Source: First 2016 Presidential Debate at Hofstra University , Sep 26, 2016

Green energy is just an expensive feel-good for tree-huggers
There has been a big push to develop alternative forms of energy--so-called green energy--from renewable sources. That's a big mistake. To begin with, the whole push for renewable energy is being driven by the wrong motivation, the mistaken belief that global climate change is being caused by carbon emissions. If you don't buy that--and I don't--then what we have is really just an expensive way of making the tree-huggers feel good about themselves.

The most popular source of green energy is solar as several decades after installing solar panels to get your money back. That's not exactly what I would call a good investment. Even if that number is only half right, what kind of investment do you want to make that takes 20 years before you break even
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 65 , Nov 3, 2015

Wind energy projects are industrial monstrosities
As earthmoving machines broke the land to create the first of Trump's two planned golf courses, the housing market in Scotland and the rest of Europe remained weak.

Trump continued to complain about the wind-energy project planned for the waters just offshore. The British government was committed to the idea, and Scottish first minister Salmond had worked hard to get the European Union's approval for a wind- energy test field in the North Sea waters. Trump said that Salmond had assured him the windmills would not be built. He insisted that he was fighting not just for himself, but for the country, because windmills were a bad technology. "We have to save Scotland," he declared. "You cannot allow these industrial monstrosities sustained with government subsidy."
Source: Never Enough, by Michael D`Antonio, p.318 , Sep 22, 2015

Windmills are destroying shorelines all over the world
In March 2012, Trump said, "Right now, green energy is way behind the times. You look at the windmills that are destroying shorelines all over the world. Economically, they're not good. It's a very, very poor form of energy."

Trump's opinion of windpower stems from an unsuccessful legal battle he has fought against an off-shore windpower project near one of his golf resorts in Scotland. Just last month, Scottish courts found that Trump had no grounds for accusing Scottish ministers of illegally agreeing to license the 100MW experimental wind farm.
Source: 2015 SolarTribune.com on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 10, 2015

Solar hasn't caught on because it has a 32-year payback
In March 2012, Trump said, "Solar hasn't caught on because it's a 32-year payback. Who wants a 32-year payback? The fact is, the technology is not there yet. Wind farms are hurting the country."

Trump has simply dismissed solar as an "unproven technology" despite solar's decades of rock-solid reliability. His 32 year payback assessment, even in 2012, did not take into account any of the tax incentives or rebates available to most Americans. One can only assume that his criticisms of the government tax breaks for solar are strictly political in motivation, since his real estate empire is built on the hundred of millions of dollars of taxpayer subsidies his projects receive.
Source: 2015 SolarTribune.com on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 10, 2015

Maybe some climate change is manmade, but not all
Q: The overwhelming majority of scientists say climate change is real and it's manmade.

A: Well, there could be some manmade, too. I mean, I'm not saying there's zero, but not nearly to the extent [others say]. When Obama gets up and said it's the number one problem of our country--and, if it is, why is it that we have to clean up our factories now, and China doesn't have to do it for another 30 or 35 years in their wonderful agreement, you know, our wonderful negotiators?
Source: CNN SOTU 2015 interview series: 2016 presidential hopefuls , Jun 28, 2015

We need nuclear energy, and we need a lot of it fast
Q: What about the Japan nuclear crisis resulting from the earthquake & tsunami?

A: Ultimately what could happen to nuclear energy in terms of a worldwide feeling, is not a good thing.

Q: Are we overreacting? Germany sidelining some nuclear reactors?

A: When you see what's going on in Japan, certainly you can't say overreacting, but, look, nuclear is a way that we get what we have to get, which is energy. I think that probably there's not an overreaction, but we have to be very, very careful. I worry about terrorists. I worry about other things beyond just that. I'm very strongly in favor of nuclear energy. You know, it's sort of interesting. If a plane goes down, people keep flying. If you get into an auto crash, people keep driving. There are problems in life. Not everything is so perfect. You have to look very carefully, though, at really taking care; having the best people in terms of safeguards for nuclear energy. But we do need nuclear energy, and we need a lot of it fast.
Source: Interview on Your World with Neil Cavuto , Mar 15, 2011

Green buildings take 40 years to get investment back
Q: What do you think about green buildings? A fad or the future?

DT: I'm doing one right now. I'm doing this huge complex in Jones Beach in coordination with the State of New York. It's on the ocean and it's going to be great. I made a deal to build a regular building and all of a sudden the state wants me to do a green building. I could have challenged them, because I have my long- term lease. A new commissioner came in and just wanted a green building. It's much more expensive. The science has not been perfected yet and in some cases the savings cannot justify the huge cost. You spend a tremendous amount of money now, and it takes 40 years to get your money back. Even with the tax breaks it doesn't work financially. For example, if I use solar, I get my money back with the tax breaks in 12 years. It's a very hard thing to justify in terms of real estate right now. It's a long, long time before you get your money back. I think that will get better with technology.
Source: Think Big, by Donald Trump, p.327 , Sep 8, 2008

Donald Trump on Climate Agreements
Could have made a deal on Paris Accord but didn't want to
Joe Biden put the United States back into the very unfair and very costly Paris Climate Accord without negotiating a better deal. They wanted us so badly back in. I'll tell you they wanted us. I could have made an unbelievable deal and gone back in, but I didn't want to do that. Surrendering millions of jobs and trillions of dollars to all of these other countries, almost all of them that were in the deal. So they have favorable treatment, we don't have favorable treatment.
Source: Remarks by Pres. Trump at the 2021 CPAC Conference , Feb 28, 2021

The Paris Accord is not fair to U.S.
TRUMP: The [Paris Climate Accord], I took us out because we were going to have to spend trillions of dollars and we were treated very unfairly. When they put us in there, they did us a great disservice, they were going to take away our businesses. I will not sacrifice tens of millions of jobs, thousands and thousands of companies because of the Paris Accord, it was so unfair. China doesn't kick in until 2030, Russia goes back to a low standard, and we kicked in right away.

BIDEN: Climate change is an existential threat to humanity. I was able to get environmental organizations--as well as people worried about jobs--to support my climate plan. Because it will create millions of new good paying jobs, we're going to take 4 million buildings and 2 million homes and retrofit them so they don't leak as much energy, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil in the process and creating significant number of jobs.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

Establish panel devoted to challenging climate science
The environmental group 350 Action released a candidate scorecard known as the 2020 Climate Test to assess presidential hopefuls on three major metrics: support for a Green New Deal, opposition to new fossil fuel development and refusal to accept money from energy companies.

Trump is the only Republican listed; he failed all three tests. On the Democratic side, 2020 candidates have for the most part indicated support for environmental policies, though some appear more willing to acknowledge the seriousness of the situation than others.

Despite public sentiment [in favor of climate action], Trump and his administration have maintained a firm anti-environment agenda. The president regularly mocks the idea of climate change on Twitter, and the White House is planning to set up a panel devoted to challenging the science behind the phenomenon that includes an avowed climate skeptic.
Source: Mother Jones, "On Climate," on 2020 Presidential Hopefuls , Mar 27, 2019

Climate change isn't a hoax, but don't spend trillions on it
President Trump is backing off his claim that climate change is a hoax but says he doesn't know if it's manmade. Trump said he doesn't want to put the US at a disadvantage in responding to climate change: "I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again," he said. "I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's manmade. I will say this: I don't want to give trillions & trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions & millions of jobs."

Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 stating, "The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive." He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection, but in years since continued to call global warming a hoax.

As far as climate "changing back," temperature records kept by NASA show that the world hasn't had a cooler-than-average year since 1976 or a cooler-than-normal month since 1985.
Source: America OnLine news on 2018 Trump Administration , Oct 14, 2018

OpEd: US is only country out of 197 to reject Paris accord
The US government has completely abdicated its role as a leader in the effort to slow and ultimately reverse climate change. In 2017, the Trump administration shocked the world by rejecting the Paris climate agreement--the only country out of 197 to do so. This is bad not only for the environment but also for our economy. We should be positioning ourselves to be the leader in the new energy economy. Instead, our government refuses to acknowledge that climate change is occurring.
Source: The Right Answer, by Rep. John Delaney, p. 81 , May 29, 2018

Claims Paris Accords costly; estimated US cost $170 billion
Trump has said that his withdrawal was motivated by the fact that the accord would be expensive, ineffective, and would cost American jobs. The World Resources Institute estimates it would cost America $170 billion. The US pulling out is largely symbolic. The world was already moving toward lower carbon emissions. World carbon emissions peaked in 2007 and have been steadily declining since then. In contrast, use of clean energy, such as solar and wind have been on a steady rise.

When answering the question about the impact of withdrawal on domestic greenhouse gas emissions, it's important to separate the withdrawal with Trump's other environmental policies. Even before the pullout, Trump administration had cut funding to EPA, discontinued the Clean Power Plan, greenlighted both the Dakota Access and Keystone pipelines, and allowed extractive operations on public land, all of which would have significant impact on US CO2 emissions regardless of the pullout.
Source: Foreign Policy Magazine on Trump Administration , Jul 13, 2017

Withdraw from Paris Agreement, to put America first
Q: On the Paris climate agreement: Pres. Trump said this on the decision to withdraw from the agreement:

(VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: The Paris agreement handicaps the United States' economy in order to win praise from the very foreign capitals and global activists that have long sought to gain wealth at our country's expense. They don't put America first. I do, and I always will.

(END VIDEO) Q: And here's the argument by the EPA administrator:

(VIDEO CLIP) SCOTT PRUITT: It is a failed deal to begin with. And even if all of the targets were met by all nations across the globe, it only reduced the temperature by less than two-tenths of one degree.

(END VIDEO) Q [to former V.P. Al Gore]: Less than two-tenths of one degree, President Trump made a similar argument.

GORE: Well, first of all, it's not true. Things take longer to happen than you think they will, and then they happen much faster than you thought they could.
Source: CNN 2017 interviews of 2020 hopefuls , Jun 4, 2017

Focus on disease & clean water, not "climate change"
Q: What are your views on climate change?

TRUMP: There is still much that needs to be investigated in the field of "climate change." Perhaps the best use of our limited financial resources should be in dealing with making sure that every person in the world has clean water. Perhaps we should focus on eliminating lingering diseases around the world like malaria. Perhaps we should focus on efforts to increase food production to keep pace with an ever-growing world population. Perhaps we should be focused on developing energy sources and power production that alleviates the need for dependence on fossil fuels. We must decide on how best to proceed so that we can make lives better, safer and more prosperous.

CLINTON: When it comes to climate change, the science is crystal clear. Climate change is an urgent threat and a defining challenge of our time.

JILL STEIN: Climate change is the greatest existential threat that humanity has ever faced.
Source: ScienceDebate.org: 20 questions for 2016 presidential race , Oct 9, 2016

Climate change is a hoax
What does Donald Trump believe? Climate Change: It is a hoax.

Trump does not believe climate change is real, tweeting out his skepticism with strong language and calling it a hoax on Fox News in 2014. In a 2012 Twitter post which is no longer accessible, Trump charged that the concept of climate change was created by the Chinese to suppress the U.S. economy. In addition, Trump has expressed firm opposition to wind turbines, which he sees as an environmental and aesthetic problem.
Source: PBS News Hour "2016 Candidate Stands" series , Jun 16, 2015

Donald Trump on Fossil Fuels
Electric car mandate is the craziest thing I've ever heard
I'm leading Biden in every single poll that's been taken over the last month or two. I just see one, I'm leading in Michigan by 11. That's great. The autoworkers are smart, they know that Biden has sold them down the tubes with the electric cars, all electric car mandate, the craziest thing I've ever heard. And they're going to all be made in China too.
Source: Fox News Town Hall 2024 pre-Iowa caucus , Jan 10, 2024

No electric vehicles: economic nationalism for auto industry
Trump traveled to the Detroit area on Wednesday night to counterprogram the GOP's second debate. Over and over, Trump attacked Biden and his administration's policies on electric vehicles and clean energy as a threat to the auto industry and the livelihoods of auto industry workers. "Yesterday Joe Biden came to Michigan to pose for photos at the picket line, but it's his policies that send Michigan auto workers to the unemployment line," Trump said. Trump's speech was billed as being his "vision for a revival of economic nationalism and our automobile manufacturing lifeline."

"My pledge to everyone is that a vote for President Trump means the future of the automobile will be made in America," said Trump. "It will be fueled by American energy, sourced by American suppliers, it will be sculpted from American aluminum and steel, and it will be built by highly skilled American hands and high-wage, American labor."
Source: Politico on 2023 Republican primary debate in Simi Valley , Sep 27, 2023

FactCheck: Didn't lose "energy independence" under Biden
[Trump in CNN Town Hall]: "We've really become in many ways a third world country. And it's very sad what's happened in this administration and it is something that we'll turn around on day one where we are energy independent. Now, energy is at a level that we've never had to pay before. Nobody can afford to continue to pay what's happening with energy, but we were energy independent."

Forbes Fact Check: What isn't true is that we lost that energy independence under President Biden. Using the definition of exports minus imports, 2021 was our highest level of energy independence in history. In 2019, our energy exports were greater than our imports by 0.61 quadrillion BTUs (quads). In 2020, that excess grew to 3.47 quads and in 2021 it grew to a new record of 3.82 quads. By that measure, we are more energy independent than we have ever been.
Source: Forbes FactCheck on CNN Town Hall for 2024 candidates , Oct 1, 2022

FactCheck: falsely blames windmills for Texas power outage
Trump said regarding the winter blackouts in Texas, "It's a disaster. The blackouts we saw in California last summer and all the time and the windmill calamity that we're witnessing in Texas. It's so sad when you look at it." Is it true that wind- generated electricity was responsible for the Feb.-March blackouts that caused over 70 deaths from hypothermia and other causes, and left over 4 million Texas homes without power?

FactCheck by Reuters: Wind generates 20% of total electricity in Texas, where natural gas supplies 47%, coal supplies 20% and solar supplies 1%

FactCheck by OnTheIssues: The 2021 Texas power crisis was caused by sub-zero temperatures coupled with fossil fuel power plants that had never been winterized. It's true that some wind turbines froze, but so did coal, gas, and oil generators, which account for 70% of power generation. The same problem occurred in 2011 (and is expected every ten years or so), but the state of Texas ignored the recommendations made then.
Source: Reuters/OnTheIssues FactCheck on 2021 CPAC Conference , Feb 28, 2021

Solar cannot power the economy like oil
TRUMP: I love solar, but solar doesn't quite have it yet. It's not powerful yet to really run our big, beautiful factories that we need to compete with the world. It's all a pipe dream, but you know what we'll do? We're going to have the greatest economy in the world, but if you want to kill the economy, get rid of your oil industry you want. What about fracking?

BIDEN: I never said I oppose fracking. What I will do with fracking over time is make sure that we can capture the emissions from the fracking. We can do that by investing money in doing it, but it's a transition. I said, no fracking and/or oil on federal land.

TRUMP: Would he close down the oil industry?

BIDEN: Well if you let me finish the statement, because it has to be replaced by renewable energy over time, over time, and I'd stopped giving to the oil industry, I'd stop giving them federal subsidies. You won't get federal subsidies to the gas, oh, excuse me to solar and wind.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

Rolled back Clean Power Plan; it increased energy prices
Q: When state officials in the West blamed the raging forest fires on climate change, you said, "I don't think the science knows." You have pulled the US out of the Paris Climate Accord. What do you believe about the science of climate change?

TRUMP: If you look at the Paris Accord, it was a disaster from our standpoint. And people are actually very happy about what's going on because our businesses are doing well.

Q: Do you believe that human greenhouse gas emissions contribute to the global warming of this planet?

TRUMP: I think a lot of things do, but I think to an extent, yes. But I also think we have to do better management of our forest. Every year I get the call, "California's burning!" If you had good forest management, you wouldn't be getting those calls.

Q: If you believe in the science of climate change, why have you rolled back the Obama Clean Power Plan which limited carbon emissions?

TRUMP: Because it was driving energy prices through the sky.
Source: First 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Chris Wallace , Sep 29, 2020

We've ended the war on American energy; we're independent
We've ended the war on American energy. American energy was under siege. The U.S. is now the number-one producer of oil and natural gas in the entire world, by far. Never again will our country be at the mercy of hostile foreign suppliers. America has declared energy independence. I declared it. We're energy independent. Big thing. It's a big deal. It's a big deal.
Source: Remarks by President Trump at the 2020 CPAC Conference , Feb 29, 2020

Fact-Check:US became #1 producer of natural gas in 2009
President Trump said, "Thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign, the United States has become the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world, by far. With the tremendous progress we have made over the past 3 years, America is now energy independent, and energy jobs, like so many elements of our country, are at a record high. We are doing numbers that no one would have thought possible just 3 years ago."

Fact -Check: The U.S energy boom started more than a decade ago, driven by market forces and advanced technology such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. According to the Energy Information Administration, the U.S. became the world's leading producer of natural gas in 2009. More recently it surpassed Russia and Saudi Arabia in crude oil production. That was helped in part after President Obama signed a bill to lift a 40-year ban on most oil exports.
Source: NPR Fact-Check on 2020 State of the Union address , Feb 4, 2020

Net exporter for the first time in 65 years
My Administration has cut more regulations in a short time than any other administration during its entire tenure. Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers thanks to historic reductions in taxes and regulations.

We have unleashed a revolution in American energy--the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. And now, for the first time in 65 years, we are a net exporter of energy.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

End war on coal: it's important for our defense
We have ended the war on American energy, we were in war. And we have ended the war on beautiful, clean, coal, one of our great natural resources. Very important for our defense, coal, very important for our defense, because we have it. We don't have to send it through pipes, we don't have to get it from foreign countries. We have more than anybody. And they wanted to end it, and our miners have been mistreated and are not being mistreated anymore. We're doing tremendous business.
Source: Vox.com blog, "Trump at CPAC 2018" , Feb 23, 2018

End the war on beautiful clean coal
In our drive to make Washington accountable, we have eliminated more regulations in our first year than any administration in history. We have ended the war on American Energy -- and we have ended the war on beautiful clean coal. We are now an exporter of energy to the world.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

Represent Pittsburgh, not Paris: Coal over climate agreement
As he announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, President Trump said he was putting American jobs ahead of the needs of other countries. "I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," he said, claiming that as a result of this action, "The coal mines are starting to open up. For many, many years that hasn't happened." Is that true?

Short Answer: Yes, mines are opening, including a new one in Pennsylvania.

Long answer: That doesn't reverse the overall decline of the coal mining industry from its glory days. The mines that are opening produce a special kind of coal used in steelmaking and are opening largely because of events unrelated to federal policy, experts say. The market for the kind of coal used in electricity--the biggest use for coal--remains down relative to where it was several years ago. In other words, the industry has rebounded slightly after years of layoffs and closures caused mainly by competition from cheap natural gas.
Source: NPR Fact-Check on 2017 Trump Administration promises , Jun 2, 2017

Revive the coal industry; end efforts to curb carbon
President Trump, flanked by company executives and miners, signed a long-promised executive order to nullify President Barack Obama's climate change efforts and revive the coal industry, effectively ceding American leadership in the international campaign to curb the dangerous heating of the planet.

Trump made clear that the United States had no intention of meeting the commitments that his predecessor had made to curb planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution, turning denials of climate change into national policy. Trump directed the Environmental Protection Agency to start the complex and lengthy legal process of withdrawing and rewriting the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which would have closed hundreds of coal-fired power plants, frozen construction of new plants and replaced them with vast new wind and solar farms.

"C'mon, fellas. You know what this is? You know what this says?" Trump said to the miners. "You're going back to work."
Source: N.Y.Times on 2017 Trump Administration , Mar 28, 2017

Stop threatening the livelihood of our coal miners
For every 1 new regulation, 2 old regulations must be eliminated; and stopping a regulation that threatens the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners. We have cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines--thereby creating tens of thousands of jobs--and I've issued a new directive that new American pipelines be made with American steel.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

Fracking will lead to American energy independence
Q: Should the United States meet all its energy needs domestically?

Trump writes, "The natural gas reserves we have in the United States could power America's energy needs for the next 110 years," and there is enough crude oil to last for decades. He supports a dramatic escalation of domestic drilling to provide jobs and minimize dependency on foreign cartels. "Fracking will lead to American energy independence. With price of natural gas continuing to drop, we can be at a tremendous advantage."

Clinton's State Department took steps to try and facilitate the export of hydraulic fracturing technology, to enable allies with promising shale geologies to replicate the U.S. oil and gas production boom; referred to natural gas as a "bridge fuel" as part of the transition from coal to renewable energy; Her energy diplomacy platform included vocal concern about geopolitical and economic risks driven by climate change. Source
Source: 2016 AFA Action iVoterGuide on 2016 presidential hopefuls , Nov 8, 2016

We have 2 trillion barrels of oil; enough for 283 years
Among all the gifts that God gave to America was an abundant supply of natural energy. According to the Department of Energy, the natural gas reserves we have in the ground could supply our energy needs for centuries.

Researchers at Rice University in Houston, Texas, have estimated we might have two trillion barrels of recoverable oil, enough to last the next 285 years. Technology has changed so much in the last few years that a Goldman-Sachs study has estimated that by 2017 or 2019, we could overtake both Saudi Arabia and Russia to become the world's largest oil producer.

The oil is there for the taking; we just have to take it.

I've never understood why, with all of our own reserves, we've allowed this country to be held hostage by OPEC, the cartel of oil- producing countries, some of which are hostile to America.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 63 , Nov 3, 2015

No Cap-and-Tax: oil is this country's lifeblood
As crazy as it sounds, the Obama administration wants higher energy prices because they believe that will force America to drive less and businesses to slow down on production and transportation.

Remember Cap-and-Tax (or as they called it Cap and Trade)? [In 2008], Obama outright admitted that his plan to tax businesses on carbon emissions that exceeded his arbitrary cap would drive energy prices sky high. Here's what he said:

"Under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket, even regardless of what I say about coal, because I'm capping greenhouse gases. Whatever the plants were, they would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that on to consumers."

Most of us shake our heads in disbelief at this stuff.

Until we get this country's lifeblood--oil--back down to reasonable rates, America's economy will continue to slump, jobs won't get created, and American consumers will face ever-increasing prices.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 15-16 , Dec 5, 2011

Jobs will slump until our lifeblood--oil--is cheap again
Until we get this country's lifeblood--oil--back down to reasonable rates, America's economy will continue to slump, jobs won't get created, and American consumers will face ever-rising prices.

Obama promised he was going to create millions of so-called "green collar" jobs. He used that promise to justify his massive government giveaway of billions and billions of taxpayers' dollars to green energy companies. We're now seeing the results of Obama's promise and big government scheme.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 16-17 , Dec 5, 2011

Enough natural gas in Marcellus Shale for 110 year supply
Did you know that with the natural gas reserves we have in the United States we could power America's energy needs for the next 110 years? Those aren't my estimations, that's what the United States Energy Department's Energy Information Administration says. In fact, one of the largest mother lodes of natural gas, the Marcellus Shale, could produce the energy equivalent of 87 billion barrels of oil. Some critics believe those numbers might be inflated. Fine. Let's say the real number is fifty-five years of energy. Or that we only get 43 billion barrels' worth of energy. So what? That buys us more time to innovate and develop newer, more efficient, cleaner, and cheaper forms of energy.
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 24 , Dec 5, 2011

It's incredible how slowly we're drilling for oil
[Saudi Arabia and OPEC] are absolutely salivating. Now who knows how long they're going to be around. They are only there because of us. It always amazes me when they raise the price. Nobody ever talks to them, nobody ever says no, you're not going to do this.

It's not the market [raising the price], it's OPEC. They set the price of oil. If they did it in this country, it would be called illegal.

I think it's incredible that we're going slow on drilling. I think it's beyond anything I've ever seen that we're going slow on drilling.

there are always going to be problems. You're going to have an oil spill. You clean it up and you fix it up and it'll be fine.

I have people in the business and they say it's almost impossible to get a permit to drill. So you can imagine how hard it is to get nuclear and other things but they say it's almost impossible. If you look at natural gas, we're the Saudi Arabia times 100 of natural gas--but we don't use it.
Source: Devonia Smith Political Transcripts Examiner , Mar 16, 2011 
