 America First includes gas-powered cars made in Detroit
Trump's speech at a nonunion auto parts company was geared toward blue-collar workers in the midst of a United Auto Workers strike. Trump ascribed the auto industry's problems to foreign trade deals he has long railed against -- pacts that Biden and even many Republicans have supported in the past. Trump also frequently complained that Biden and Democrats were pushing electric vehicles to please environmental activists at the expense of an industry still heavily centered on gas-powered cars.

"Joe Biden claims to be the most pro-union president in history," said Trump, talking up the "America First" themes. He asserted that Biden's push to make more of them would hamstring the U.S. industry. "The things that you make in Michigan, they don't need any of it," Trump said of electric car manufacturers.

The number of auto manufacturing jobs held relatively even during Trump's administration, adding about 35,000 jobs from January 2017 to February 2020.
Source: NBC News on 2023 Republican primary debate in Simi Valley , Sep 27, 2023

FactCheck: 9 million jobs offset by 22.2 million job loss
Trump claimed the US economy has gained a record nine million jobs over the past three months.

FactCheck: The economy did add about 9.3 million jobs combined in May, June and July -- but that record increase immediately followed a much bigger record loss of about 22.2 million jobs in March and April. The economy is still down nearly 13 million jobs because of the coronavirus crisis. (Also, many of the jobs added were simply people returning to work after temporary layoffs.)
Source: CNN Fact-Check on 2020 Republican Convention speech , Aug 28, 2020

Unemployment at record low, including women & disabled
From the instant I took office, I moved rapidly to revive the United States economy--slashing a record number of job-killing regulations, enacting historic and record-setting tax cuts, and fighting for fair and reciprocal trade agreements. Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs--5 million more than Government experts projected during the previous administration.

    African-American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded.
    The veterans' unemployment rate dropped to a record low.
    The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all-time low.
    Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate recorded in United States history.

Source: 2020 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 4, 2020

Fact-Check: Job creation has increased, but at lower rate
Trump said, "Under the last administration, over 300,000 working-age people dropped out of the workforce. In just 3 years, 3.5 million working-age people have joined the workforce. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage-earners has increased by 47%: 3 times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Wages are rising fastest for low-income workers, who have seen a 16% pay-increase since my election. This is a blue collar boom."

Fact -Check: Trump here is mixing apples and oranges, comparing the labor force participation rate under President Obama with the number of jobs created under his own administration. But they are different numbers. It's true the participation rate fell from 65.7% to 62.9% during Obama's two terms in office, partly because the population was aging. It has since rebounded this year to 63.2%. But the economy also added 11.6 million jobs during Obama's two terms, and job creation has increased at a slightly slower rate under Trump.
Source: NPR Fact-Check on 2020 State of the Union address , Feb 4, 2020

FactCheck: Unemployment under Trump is lowest in decades
A "fact-check" video by Bernie Sanders misrepresents employment data in an attempt to prove President Trump "wrong" about the economy. The data actually show employment continues to improve under Trump.

The video features Warren Gunnels, the senator's top aide on the Senate budget committee. Trump said in the SOTU speech, "unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century." The official unemployment rate dropped as low as 3.7% in November--marking the first time it had been that low since 1969.

In the "fact-check" video, Gunnels says "the real unemployment rate--which includes those who have given up looking for work and those who are working part time when they need a full-time job--is 8.1%, not 4%." Gunnels is referring to the U-6, an "alternative measure of labor underutilization." Gunnels is right that the U-6 rate is 8.1%. But this is what he doesn't tell his viewers: Under Trump, the U-6 rate had dropped to its lowest level in 17 years, the lowest since April 2001.
Source: FactCheck.org on 2019 State of the Union address , Feb 6, 2019

600,000 new manufacturing jobs with rising blue-collar wages
In just over 2 years, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom. We have created 5.3 million new jobs and importantly added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs--something which almost everyone said was impossible to do.

Wages are rising at the fastest pace in decades, and growing for blue collar workers faster than anyone else. The economy is growing almost twice as fast today as when I took office, and we are considered far and away the hottest economy anywhere in the world.
Source: 2019 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Feb 5, 2019

Get Motor City revving its engines again
In Detroit, I halted Government mandates that crippled America's autoworkers--so we can get the Motor City revving its engines once again. Many car companies are now building and expanding plants in the US--something we have not seen for decades. Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan. Soon, plants will be opening up all over the country. This is all news Americans are unaccustomed to hearing--for many years, companies and jobs were only leaving us. But now they are coming back.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 30, 2018

200,000 new manufacturing jobs with lowest unemployment ever
Since the election, we have created 2.4 million new jobs, including 200,000 new jobs in manufacturing alone. After years of wage stagnation, we are finally seeing rising wages. Unemployment claims have hit a 45-year low. African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded, and Hispanic American unemployment has also reached the lowest levels in history.
Source: 2018 State of the Union address to United States Congress , Jan 30, 2018

Fact-check: African-American unemployment lowest in history
TRUMP: Since the election, we have created 2.4 million new jobs. Unemployment claims have hit a 45-year low. African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded, and Hispanic American unemployment has also reached the lowest levels in history [TV camera shows Congressional Black Caucus members who did not applaud--why not?]

NPR Fact-Check: Trump's numbers are right, but it's generally a stretch for presidents to take credit for job creation. The unemployment rate for black Americans is currently 6.8%, the lowest level recorded since the government started keeping track in 1972. And Hispanic unemployment rate is at 4.9%, close to a record low. However, Trump is implying that he caused these low African-American and Hispanic unemployment rates. But those rates had been falling relatively steadily since around 2010, under Pres. Obama, and their declines don't appear to have picked up speed. This implies that there's nothing specific that Trump did to change this rate
Source: NPR Fact-Check on 2018 State of the Union address , Jan 8, 2018

Two core principles: buy American, and hire American
To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking the Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of the US--financed through both public and private capital--creating millions of new jobs.

This effort will be guided by two core principles: Buy American, and Hire American. Tonight, I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace ObamaCare with reforms that expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and provide better healthcare.
Source: 2017 State of the Union address to Congress , Feb 28, 2017

How do people make it on $7.25? Raise state minimum wage
Donald Trump said in television interviews that he would like an increase in the minimum wage and that it is best that such a change happen at the state level.

In the past, Trump has opposed upping the minimum wage. But in recent days, he has increasingly warmed to the idea. "I have seen what's going on, and I don't know how people make it on $7.25," said Trump, referencing the federal minimum hourly wage. "With that being said, I would like to see an increase of some magnitude, but I'd rather leave it to the states. Let the states decide."

Speaking at a second interview, the business mogul said, "I haven't decided in terms of numbers, but I think people have to get more." He acknowledged that he was putting forth a position at odds with his previous stance. "Sure, it's a change. I'm allowed to change. You need flexibility," he said.
Source: Washington Post, "Minimum-wage hike," by Sean Sullivan , May 8, 2016

I'm the only one on this stage who's hired people
RUBIO: Donald, you've hired a significant number of people from other countries to take jobs that Americans could have filled. You have brought over a thousand people from all over the world to fill maid jobs.

TRUMP: As far as the people I've hired in Florida during the prime season, you could not get help. People didn't want to have part-time jobs. There were part-time jobs, very seasonal, 90-day jobs, 120-day jobs. I'm the only one on the stage that's hired people. You haven't hired anybody.
Source: 2016 CNN-Telemundo Republican debate on eve of Texas primary , Feb 25, 2016

Bring jobs back from China, Mexico, Japan, and Vietnam
I'm going to bring jobs back from China, Mexico Japan, Vietnam. They are taking our jobs. They are taking our wealth. We have $2.5 trillion offshore. We're going to bring that money back. You take a look at what happened just this week, China bought the Chicago Stock Exchange. Nabisco and Ford, they're all moving out. We have an economy that last quarter didn't grow. We have to make our economy grow again.
Source: 2016 CBS Republican primary debate in South Carolina , Feb 13, 2016

Don't raise minimum wage; it makes us non-competitive
Q: Picketers have gathered demanding an immediate hike in the minimum wage to $15 an hour. Are you sympathetic to the protesters?

DONALD TRUMP: I can't be. We are a country that is being beaten on every front economically & militarily. There is nothing that we do now to win. We don't win anymore. [If our] wages are too high, we're not going to be able to compete against the world. I hate to say it, but we have to leave it the way it is. People have to work really hard and have to get into that upper stratum. But we can not do this if we are going to compete with the rest of the world. We just can't do it.

Q: So do not raise the minimum wage?

TRUMP: I would not do it.

CARSON: Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people increases.

MARCO RUBIO: If I thought that raising the minimum wage was the best way to help people increase their pay, I would be all for it, but it isn't. If you raise the minimum wage, you're going to make people more expensive than a machine.
Source: Fox Business/WSJ First Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

I have relevant experience by creating jobs and assets
I've created tens of thousands of jobs and a great company. It's a company I'm very proud of. Some of the most iconic assets anywhere in the world. I don't have to give you a website because I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money. I want to make our country greater than it's ever been. I think we have that potential. We cannot lose this election.
Source: Fox Business/WSJ Second Tier debate , Nov 10, 2015

Teachers unions are obstacles to improving schools
In our educational system, one huge obstacle is the strength of the teacher unions. Teacher unions don't want school choice because it means a potential reduction in union-protected jobs. Thanks to strong contracts negotiated by the New York City teacher union, it's become almost impossible to discipline a teacher, much less actually fire one.

When there is a legitimate complaint against a teacher in the New York system, rather than having a quick hearing to determine the validity of the complaint, teachers are assigned to an area known as "the rubber room" while they wait for their hearing.

And they wait. They sit in empty classrooms or converted closets and do nothing--but still get paid their whole salary. Some teachers spend several years waiting. No wonder they call it the rubber room--the whole concept is insane.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p. 55 , Nov 3, 2015

Rebuilding America will create 13 million jobs
What are our priorities? Before we build bridges to Mars, let's make sure the bridges over the Mississippi River aren't going to fall down.

A few years ago, Moody's, the financial investment agency, calculated that every $1 of federal money invested in improving the infrastructure for highways and public schools would guarantee $1.44 back to the economy. Infrastructure investments have one of the strongest direct economic impacts.

You know why that is? Jobs. These projects put people to work--not just the people doing the work, but also the manufacturers, the suppliers, the designers, and yes, even the lawyers. The Senate Budget Committee estimates that rebuilding America will create 13 million jobs. Our economy needs more available jobs.

If we do what we have to do correctly, we can create the biggest economic boom in this country since the New Deal when our vast infrastructure was first put into place. It's a no-brainer. It's so obvious that even the Democrats can figure it out.
Source: Crippled America, by Donald Trump, p124-5 , Nov 3, 2015

Don't raise minimum wage, but create more opportunities
Q: What is a fair living wage?

TRUMP: I want to keep the minimum wage pretty much where it is right now. Because of the fact that we have a country that is now competing more than ever before because of airplanes, and transportation, and the internet. If we raise it we're not going to be able to compete with the rest of the world. What I do want to do is bring in jobs so much so that people don't have to live on minimum wage. But we are going to have to compete with the rest of the world.
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interviews of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 16, 2015

Take jobs back from foreign countries to lower unemployment
My policy is going to be something that's going to set the country back right. I mean, one of the big things is we have to take back jobs from China.

We have to take back jobs from Japan, and Vietnam, and Mexico, and virtually everybody that's taking our jobs and ruining our manufacturing base. And we have to put people to work. Because the real unemployment number is probably 21%. People give up looking for jobs. And they no longer become a statistic. And it's very unfair. So we have to put our country back to work. We have to get great jobs for people and good paying jobs for people. And we're going to be just fine.
Source: Meet the Press 2015 interviews of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Aug 2, 2015

Real unemployment rate is 20%; don't believe 5.6%
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product--a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It's never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate. Our real unemployment is anywhere from 18% to 20%. Don't believe the 5.6%. The real number is anywhere from 18% to maybe even 21%, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.
Source: 2015 announcement speeches of 2016 presidential hopefuls , Jun 16, 2015

Raising business tax causes businesses to move jobs overseas
People are smart. They know you can't be "for" jobs but against those who create them. It doesn't work. All raising taxes on businesses does is force business owners to lay off employees they can no longer afford. It also drives up prices, encourages businessmen and women to move their businesses (and their jobs) to other countries that have far lower tax rates and regulatory costs, and sends people scrambling for tax shelters. Obama appears surprisingly clueless about how easy it is now for anyone to outsource jobs to foreign workers with just the click of a mouse. On our broadband, high-speed Internet world, the old brick-and-mortar barriers of business have vanished. That me
Source: Time to Get Tough, by Donald Trump, p. 54 , Dec 5, 2011

Keep loyal hardworking people around as long as they'd like
I much prefer keeping loyal and hardworking people around for as long as they'd like to be here. There's a wonderful lady in her nineties, Amy Luerssen, who worked for my father and still reports to work every day at our Brooklyn office. Here at the Trump Organization, Helen Rakotz has worked for me from the day I moved to Manhattan, and she still puts in long hours every week. She is eighty-two.
Source: How to Get Rich, by Donald Trump, p. 18 , Mar 23, 2004

Unions fight for pay; managers fight for less; consumers win
It’s probably more refreshing to deal with the Teamsters than the AFT or NEA. At least the leaders of the Teamsters don’t blow smoke. The construction unions I deal with want more in the pay envelope for their rank and file. That’s what they tell you every time you sit down at the table. You can respect that-even as you push back to cut the best deal from your perspective. That’s the American way.

What we all want is monopoly-dominance in our chosen line of work that allows us to call the tune. No one really wants to compete-they have to in order to survive. Everyone pursues monopoly, the system prevents it, and the results is the world’s most competition-intensive economy. Who wins? Consumers do. They get more choice and more quality at lower cost.
Source: The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump, p. 78-79 , Jul 2, 2000

Foreign companies are taking jobs from US
Trump said he wasn’t surprised by the violence this week at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle. Protesters there accused the global organization of considering only the needs of giant multinational corporations at the expense of protecting the environment and worker rights. “I’m not so sure that anybody can dispute what’s happening in Seattle,” Trump said. “Jobs are going left and right. Foreign companies are ripping off the United States like never before.”
Source: Pat Eaton-Robb, Associated Press, on 2000 presidential race , Dec 2, 1999

Donald Trump on Casinos
1990: fined $65,000 for money-laundering via casino chips
The week before Christmas 1990, Trump's father, Fred, dispatched a lawyer to the Castle casino. The lawyer approached the casino cage and handed over a certified check for $3.35 million. A dealer paid out the entire amount in 670 gray $5,000 chips.

The gray chips were not to gamble-but were another emergency strategy to funnel cash to Fred's hard-pressed son. But if he simply gave the money as a gift, it would be siphoned off to the Castle's many creditors. Depositing the cash into a gambling account was a way to sidestep them.

Years later, Trump contended that propping up the Castle with millions in his father's chips had been Fred's idea. "My father said, 'Oh, let me do it, it's easy with the chips,'" Trump said. As unprecedented as the episode was, the New Jersey casino commission concluded that it had violated only a rule intended to keep organized crime out of Atlantic City. The commission unanimously voted to fine Trump Castle $65,000.
Source: Trump Revealed, by Michael Kranish & Mark Fisher, p.200-1 , Aug 23, 2016

Opposed to casinos on Indian reservations
This man reflexively put his own interests first. How else could one explain his effort to overturn a law that allowed impoverished Indian tribes to operate casinos? His suit alleged that he was the victim of unlawful discrimination because, like laws granting special tax breaks for developers, the Indian gaming law benefited only a "very limited class of citizens."

In 1993 he got into a shouting match at a congressional hearing as he insisted that tribal casinos were courting "the biggest scandal since Al Capone. Organized crime is rampant on Indian reservations. People know it; people talk about it. It's going to blow." Trump also said of the tribal representatives at the meeting, "They don't look like Indians to me, and they don't look like Indians to Indians." After the hearing an Indian leader accused Trump of "economic racism."
Source: Never Enough, by Michael D`Antonio, p.229-30 , Sep 22, 2015

FactCheck: Yes, Trump wanted a casino, and Jeb opposed it
Jeb Bush asked about Trump's statement that politicians could be bought: "The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something--that gave me money--was Donald Trump," Bush said. "He wanted casino gambling in Florida."

That's when Trump cut him off--and failed to tell the truth. "I didn't," Trump said. But for more than 21 years, Trump did. He and his company have repeatedly been on record trying to get casino deals in one form or another in Florida.

Trump didn't just stop with his one false denial. He doubled down. Immediately after Trump said "I didn't" want casinos in Florida, Bush corrected him: "Yes you did. You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed."

Trump, cutting him off: "[If I'd wanted it], I promise I would have gotten it."

Wrong again. As early as 1994, just before Florida voters rejected expanded gambling, Trump told The Miami Herald: "I'm going to be the first one to open up if Floridians vote for them."
Source: Politico FactCheck on 2015 Republican two-tier CNN debate , Sep 17, 2015

2013: Failed to persuade Florida legislators on large casino
[Did Trump try unsuccessfully to get casinos into Florida while Jeb Bush was governor? Yes.] From hiring lobbyists to taking a former business partner to court, Trump's interest in getting a piece of Florida's gaming industry has been documented in news articles from Tallahassee to Miami. Trump's involvement in expanding Florida gaming--an effort that regularly fails in the state Capitol due to the influence of conservative lawmakers--is well-known among state capital reporters, politicians and lobbyists alike.

As early as 1994, Trump [said he would open a casino if voters approved it]. A decade later, Florida approved casinos. Today, Florida has 15 of them. None are owned by Trump. But he tried after he bought the Doral Golf Resort & Spa near Miami and joined the failed fight to have lawmakers approve new, large "destination-resort" casinos. "If Miami doesn't do casinos, that would be a terrible mistake," Trump told The Miami Herald in 2013. But Trump didn't get what he wanted.
Source: Politico FactCheck on 2015 Republican two-tier CNN debate , Sep 17, 2015

First Atlantic City casino ever finished on-time & on-budget
[When constructing the Holiday Inn casino], one way we saved money was from something known as value engineering. For example, instead of placing the cooling towers for our air conditioners on the roof, we installed them on a lower section of the roof, six months earlier.

The second way we saved money was by producing very complete plans, so that contractors could bid on every aspect of the job.

The final thing that helped us keep costs down the state of the construction industry in Atlantic City in the spring of 1982. Thousands of local construction workers were either out of work or about to be. That gave us a lot of leverage with contractors. I wasn't looking to force these guys to make such bad deals that they'd lose money. On the other hand, I was in a position to negotiate very reasonable prices.

I got the building finished right on schedule. It represented the first casino-hotel in Atlantic City ever built on time and on budget.
Source: The Art of the Deal, by Donald Trump, p.216-7 , Jul 6, 1993 
