 Fence-line communities need restrictions on pollutants
Q: People of color are much more likely to live near oil refineries and chemical plants.

BIDEN: Those people live on what they call fence lines. [Trump] doesn't understand this. They live near chemical plants that pollute, chemical plants and oil plants and refineries that pollute. I used to live near that when I was growing up in Claymont, Delaware and there are more oil refineries in Marcus Hook and the Delaware River than there is any place, including in Houston at the time. When my mom got in the car to drive me to school, turning the windshield wiper, there'd be an oil slick in the window. That's why so many people in my state were dying and getting cancer. The fact is those frontline communities, it's not a matter of what you're paying them. It matters how you keep them safe. What do you do? You impose restrictions on the pollutions that if the pollutants coming out of those fence line communities.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

Green New Deal is in platform and it's not too much
Q: Are you a firm supporter of the Green New Deal? Or do you think it's too much, too goes too far?

BIDEN: Oh, I don't think it's too much. Now, I have my own deal. I've laid it out in great detail. [The Green New Deal] was the Democratic Party's adopted platform. It requires for us to move in a direction to fundamentally change the way in which we deal with environment. I'm the guy that ran the Recovery Act which invested over $90 billion in bringing down the cost of renewable energy. So it's now more competitive than it is for coal, or for oil, or for gas. And by the way, before I actually went through the whole thing. I sat down with every one of the major unions, they all endorsed me. And I said, "look, this is good. It's not only good for the environment, it's going to provide jobs and you're not going to lose your jobs. Not producing the same energy producing different kind of energy."
Source: CNN Town Hall 2020 drive-in with Anderson Cooper , Sep 17, 2020

WOTUS: clean water rules create rural jobs
Q: Obama Administration policies such as the rules under the Waters of the U.S. Act (WOTUS) threatened to increase regulation. How do you plan to decrease the regulatory burden for farmers and businesses?

BIDEN: On regulation that relates to fertilizer and water tables: In Delaware, we have a $4 billion poultry industry, and all the manure, a consequence of chickens, is polluting the Chesapeake Bay. We've invested a lot of money, and we found out you can pelletize this and take out the methane, so you can use that fertilizer without the damage that was being done before. The same way with horse manure and cow manure and pig manure. And we can create thousands of jobs in rural America as a consequence of setting up these small industries within communities. That's the way you'll be able to continue to farm without worrying about whether or not you're polluting, & be in a position where you're able to make money by what you do in the transition as well as be able to grow more.
Source: CNN Town Hall 2020 drive-in with Anderson Cooper , Sep 17, 2020

Pay to put farmland in land banks, for open space & carbon
Q: Over-regulation puts an extreme burden on small- and family-owned farms, and is a contributing factor to many farms going out of business.

BIDEN: Two ways. Number one, we should provide for your ability to make a lot more money, as farmers, by dealing with you being able to put land in land banks, and you get paid to do that to provide for more open space and provide for the ability of you to be able to be in a position that we are going to pay you for planting certain crops that in fact absorb carbon from the air. That's part of what my plan relates to, in terms of agriculture and the environment. But if you are talking about regulation that relates to fertilizer and water tables, that's a different thing [and requires regulation].
Source: CNN Town Hall 2020 drive-in with Anderson Cooper , Sep 17, 2020

World should give $20B to Brazil to stop burning Amazon
The first thing that President Obama and I were summoned to the Defense Department for was [to hear their assessment that] the single greatest threat to our national security is climate change. Because as populations have to move because they can no longer live where they are, because their islands are sinking--It causes war, it causes great migrations. They said that's the single biggest problem.

In addition, I would immediately rejoin the Paris climate accord, which I helped put together. I would call on the 100 nations, the 100 major polluters, in the first 100 days, to up the ante and make it clear that in fact if they didn't, there'd be a price to pay.

And lastly, I would be right now organizing the hemisphere and the world, to provide $20 billion for the Amazon, for Brazil no longer to burn the Amazon, so they could have forests. They could have farming [but instead of burning, say], "This is what we're going to do." The region is burning out.
Source: 11th Democratic primary debate (Biden-Sanders one-on-one) , Mar 15, 2020

Will bring polluting country leaders to US to find solutions
85 percent of the pollution that we deal with comes from the rest of the world. I was part of putting together the Paris climate accord. I would immediately rejoin it. And I would immediately bring in the single biggest polluters in the first 100 days to the United States and say, we have to up the ante in how we move forward.
Source: CNN N. H. Town Hall on eve of 2020 N. H. primary , Feb 5, 2020

Develop new nuclear technologies
Biden on Nuclear Power: Support developing new nuclear technologies as part of an effort to fight climate change.

TWO CANDIDATES HAVE SIMILAR VIEWS: Kamala Harris; Jay Inslee.

Utilities and scientists are developing nuclear power reactors that are much smaller than the massive facilities that have been used in past decades. The new reactors, called Small Modular Reactors that the Energy Department's national labs are helping to develop, would produce perhaps 50 to 100 megawatts.
Source: Politico "2020Dems on the Issues" , Jul 17, 2019

1970s: Push to prohibit refineries, to protect state beaches
In the 1970s, when Shell Oil bought up more than five thousand acres of shore property near the town of Delaware City, just south of New Castle, with plans to build a new refinery, he raised concerns about raw sewage and other population threats. While he favored job creation opportunities, he was in no mood to approve corporate free rides. "Let Shell prove to us they won't ruin our environment," he would say, and if the oil giant couldn't do so, "we'll rezone them right out of here." He introduced a rezoning ordinance aimed at blocking another refinery on farmland at Smyrna, farther south, but at the same time called for a hearing delay until Sell could mount its own case for the project. A council staff member recalled that "a lot of his opposition led to enactment of a state law prohibiting having industrial development including refineries," to protect Delaware's beaches, a major tourist attraction.
Source: A Life of Trial & Redemption, by Jules Witcover, p. 62 , Oct 5, 2010

America should guarantee Katrina reconstruction
Q: Would you support a federal law guaranteeing the right to return to New Orleans and other Gulf regions devastated by Hurricane Katrina?

KUCINICH: Absolutely. The aftermath underscores everything that's wrong in this country about race.

GRAVEL: Yes.

DODD: I would as well. New Orleans and Katrina have become a symbol of everything that went wrong with this administration's failure to respond to a people in need.

CLINTON: I have proposed a 10-point Gulf Coast Recovery Agenda, because even if we were to give people a right, there is nothing to return to.

BIDEN: We got to step up and pay to rebuild those firehouses, pay to bring those cops back, pay to rebuild those hospitals. It is a nation's problem, it is not the problem merely of the people of Louisiana or New Orleans. This is an American city incapable on its own of doing this. It's an American problem. We should guarantee the reconstruction.

RICHARDSON: Yes, I would support that. I would also support the Katrina Recovery Act.
Source: 2007 Democratic Primary Debate at Howard University , Jun 28, 2007

Take away the billions of subsidy to the oil companies
Take away the subsidy, which I've introduced legislation to do. It's about $6 billion, $2.7 billion directly, to the oil companies, number one. Number two, investigate as the president of the US. Use the Justice Department and go in and investigate this whole issue of price gouging. Number three, though, we have to do what we all have said here, but first and foremost, significantly raise the mileage automobiles get and mandate it.
Source: 2007 Dem. debate at Saint Anselm College , Jun 3, 2007

Scored 80% on Humane Society Scorecard on animal protection

    The Humane Society 109th Congress Scorecard on animal protection issues scored Biden 80 out of 100, based on:
    Biden co-sponsored the Horse Slaughter Prevention Act (S.1915): To bar slaughtering horses for human consumption. Bill had 34 co-sponsors.
    Biden voted for the Horse Slaughter Amendment (9/20/2005): to stop export of horses for slaughter.
    Biden co-sponsored the Animal Fighting Prohibition Act (S.382): To criminalize dogfighting & cockfighting. The bill had 51 cosponsors & passed unanimously on 4/28/2005.
    Biden did not co-sponsor the Downed Animal Protection Act (S.1779): to ban "downed" (unable to walk to slaughter) cattle, pigs & sheep in human food. Bill had 26 cosponsors.
    Biden signed the Funding Letter to the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee: seeking funds for the Animal Welfare Act, Humane Methods of Slaughter Act, & federal animal fighting law. The letter was cosigned by 44 senators & sent on 5/25/2006.

Source: Humane Society 109th Congress Scorecard, www.fund.org , Jan 31, 2007

End commercial whaling and illegal trade in whale meat.
Biden co-sponsored a resolution for the International Whaling Commission

    Expresses the sense of the Senate that the United States:
    at the 53rd Annual Meeting of the International Whaling Commission, should remain firmly opposed to commercial whaling,
    should initiate and support efforts to ensure that all activities conducted under reservations to the Commission`s moratorium or sanctuaries are ceased,
    should oppose the lethal taking of whales for scientific purposes unless it is specifically authorized by the Scientific Committee of the Commission,
    should seek the Commission`s support for specific efforts by member nations to end illegal trade in whale meat, and
    should support the permanent protection of whale populations through the establishment of whale sanctuaries in which commercial whaling is prohibited;
    At the 12th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, should oppose all efforts to reopen international trade in whale meat or to downlist any whale population; and
    should make full use of all appropriate diplomatic mechanisms, relevant international laws and agreements, and other appropriate mechanisms to implement these goals. 

Source: Resolution sponsored by 20 Senators 01-SR121 on Jun 29, 2001

Rated 95% by the LCV, indicating pro-environment votes.
Biden scores 95% by the LCV on environmental issues

The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) is the political voice of the national environmental movement and the only organization devoted full-time to shaping a pro-environment Congress and White House. We run tough and effective campaigns to defeat anti-environment candidates, and support those leaders who stand up for a clean, healthy future for America. Through our National Environmental Scorecard and Presidential Report Card we hold Congress and the Administration accountable for their actions on the environment. Through regional offices, we build coalitions, promote grassroots power, and train the next generation of environmental leaders. The 2003 National Environmental Scorecard provides objective, factual information about the environmental voting records of all Members of the first session of the 108th Congress. This Scorecard represents the consensus of experts from 20 respected environmental and conservation organizations who selected the key votes on which Members of Congress should be graded. LCV scores votes on the most important issues of the year, including environmental health and safety protections, resource conservation, and spending for environmental programs. Scores are calculated by dividing the number of pro-environment votes by the total number of votes scored. The votes included in this Scorecard presented Members of Congress with a real choice on protecting the environment and help distinguish which legislators are working for environmental protection. Except in rare circumstances, the Scorecard excludes consensus action on the environment and issues on which no recorded votes occurred.
Source: LCV website 03n-LCV on Dec 31, 2003

EPA must do better on mercury clean-up.
Biden signed a letter from 45 Senators to EPA

To: Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

Dear Administrator Leavitt:

We are writing to urge you to take prompt and effective action to clean up mercury pollution from power plants. The EPA’s current proposals on mercury fall far short of what the law requires, and they fail to protect the health of our children and our environment. We ask you to carry out the requirements of the Clean Air Act to protect our nation from toxic mercury contamination.

On January 30, 2004, EPA proposed two alternative rules to address mercury emissions. Unfortunately, both of these proposals fail to meet the Clean Air Act directives for cleaning up mercury. EPA`s proposals permit far more mercury pollution, and for years longer, than the Clean Air Act allows.

The toxicity of mercury has been proven time and again by scientists around the world. The Agency`s own scientists just released a study finding that approximately 630,000 infants were born in the US in the 12-month period, 1999-2000, with blood mercury levels higher than what is considered safe. This is a doubling of previous estimates.

The newest scientific studies show that controlling mercury emissions works. As we saw in Florida, sharp reductions in mercury pollution are mirrored by reductions in nearby fish populations. A study in northern Wisconsin indicated that reductions in the input of mercury from air corresponded with marked reductions in mercury fish tissue levels in the 1990s.

As the Administrator of the EPA, you have the legal authority and the responsibility to address mercury emissions and protect public health. We do not believe that EPA`s current proposals are sufficient or defensible. We urge you to withdraw the entire proposed rule package and re-propose a rule for adequate public comment that meets the terms of the 1998 settlement agreement and is promulgated by the December 15, 2004 deadline.
Source: Letter from 45 Senators to EPA 04-SEN1 on Apr 1, 2004

Strengthen prohibitions against animal fighting.
Biden co-sponsored strengthening prohibitions against animal fighting

Sen. CANTWELL. I reintroduce today the Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act of 2007. This legislation has won the unanimous approval of the Senate several times, but unfortunately has not yet reached the finish line.

There is no doubt, animal fighting is terribly cruel. Dogs and roosters are drugged to make them hyper-aggressive and forced to keep fighting even after suffering severe injuries such as punctured eyes and pierced lungs. It`s all done for `entertainment` and illegal gambling. Some dogfighters steal pets to use as bait for training their dogs, while others allow trained fighting dogs to roam neighborhoods and endanger the public.

The Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act will strengthen current law by making the interstate transport of animals for the purpose of fighting a felony and increase the punishment to three years of jail time. This is necessary because the current misdemeanor penalty has proven ineffective--considered a `cost of doing business` by those in the animal fighting industry which continues unabated nationwide.

These enterprises depend on interstate commerce, as evidenced by the animal fighting magazines that advertise and promote them. Our bill also makes it a felony to move cockfighting implements in interstate or foreign commerce. These are razor-sharp knives known as `slashers` and ice pick-like gaffs designed exclusively for cockfights and attached to the birds` legs for fighting.

This is long overdue legislation. It`s time to get this felony animal fighting language enacted. It`s time for Congress to strengthen the federal law so that it can provide as a meaningful deterrent against animal fighting. Our legislation does not expand the federal government`s reach into a new area, but simply aims to make current law more effective. It is explicitly limited to interstate and foreign commerce, so it protects states` rights in the two states where cockfighting is still allowed.
Source: Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act (S.261/H.R.137) 2007-S261 on Jan 4, 2007 
