 Autocrats think democracy can't compete in the 21st century
I spent a lot of time with President Xi [of China]. He's deadly earnest about becoming the most significant, consequential nation in the world. He and others, autocrats, think that democracy can't compete in the 21st century with autocracies because it takes too long to get consensus.
Source: 2021 State of the Union address , Apr 28, 2021

Sanctions on Russia for interference in 2020 election
PROMISE MADE: (CNN Town Hall 2020 drive-in with Anderson Cooper, Sep 17, 2020): [Russia] attempting to interfere with our election is a violation of our sovereignty. I don't mean war. But they'll pay an economic price.

PROMISE KEPT: (CNN, 4/15/21): The Biden administration slapped sweeping sanctions on Russia over Moscow's alleged interference in the 2020 election, the massive SolarWinds hack and the ongoing occupation of Crimea, signaling it is adopting a tougher posture toward the Kremlin and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

ANALYSIS: President Trump denied all sanctions against Russia for interference in the 2016 presidential election; that was the focus of the first Trump impeachment. The Mueller Report detailed Russian interference, but Trump referred to it as "the Russia Hoax" and "Fake News." Biden's action signifies that the United States no longer considers Russian actions to be a hoax.
Source: CNN on Mueller Report and Biden Administration promises , Apr 22, 2021

Promote LGBTQI+ rights worldwide via State Department
PROMISE MADE: (CNN LGBT Town Hall, 10/10/19): In my State Department, we will have a special office that's devoted directly to promoting LGBTQ rights around the world.

PROMISE KEPT: (Executive Memo on LGBTQI, 2.4/21): I am directing all agencies engaged abroad to ensure that U.S. diplomacy and foreign assistance promote and protect the human rights of LGBTQI+ persons. The Department of State shall lead a standing group, with appropriate interagency representation, to help ensure the Federal Government's swift and meaningful response to serious incidents that threaten the human rights of LGBTQI+ persons abroad.

OnTheIssues ANALYSIS: Biden has fulfilled this promise in general, but not for the specific promise of establishing a special office. We consider this a general fulfillment because Biden expanded on his promise from "LGBTQ" to "LGBTQI+"--adding "intersex persons"--Biden has consistently used the longer list in his public pronouncements.
Source: White House LGBTQI press release on Biden Promises , Feb 4, 2021

Mueller Report: I did nothing wrong; Trump bribed Ukraine
On the Mueller Report impeachment investigation:

TRUMP: I was put through a phony witch hunt for three years. It started before I got elected. They spied on my campaign. Let me just say this, Mueller and 18 angry Democrats and FBI agents all over the place spent $48 million. They went through everything I had, including my tax returns, and they found absolutely no collusion and nothing wrong. $48 million. I guarantee you, if I spent $1 million on you, Joe, I could find plenty wrong.

BIDEN: I later learned of Burisma, a company that somehow, I had done something wrong, yet every single person, when he was going through his impeachment, testifying under oath, said I did my job impeccably. I carried out U.S. policy, not one single solitary thing was out of line. Number two, the guy who got in trouble in Ukraine was this guy trying to bribe the Ukrainian government to say something negative about me, which they would not do and did not do because it never ever, ever happened.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

The days of cozying up to dictators is over
[Excerpts of DNC speech]: "What we know about this president is that if he's a president who takes no responsibility. Refuses to lead. Blames others," Biden said. "Cozies up to dictators and fans the flames of hate and division."

"I take very personally and the profound responsibility of serving as commander in chief," Biden said. "I'll be a president who will stand with our allies and friends and make it clear to our adversaries the days of cozying up to dictators is over."
Source: D.Brennan/Newsweek on 2020 Democratic National Convention , Aug 21, 2020

Helped with $750M Latin America funding
Look, I'm the only one who's spent hundreds of hours in Latin America. I've met with this president. I've met with the last president, the one before that. I've been deeply involved in making sure that we have a policy that makes more sense than this god-awful president we have now. I'm the guy that put together $750 million to provide help for those Latin American countries that are the reason why people are leaving, because there's nothing for them to stay for.
Source: 9th Democrat 2020 primary debate, in Las Vegas Nevada , Feb 19, 2020

Putin wants to weaken NATO and democracy
Q: Russian President Vladimir Putin has interfered with Georgian, Ukrainian, French, German, U.K., and U.S. elections. He has occupied territories of Georgia and Ukraine. What will you do to end all of these attacks, which some have said are acts of war?

BIDEN: Well, I think they are. They're acts that are violating our sovereignty. I'm the guy who went over to our NATO colleagues and worked out an agreement before their last series of elections a year and a half ago, where we got everybody running for office to take a pledge that they would let anyone know that if there was any interference taking place, they would reject any outside help. And one of the very reasons why the president got impeached is because he went to outside folks, seeking help in our election. Putin is a guy who, in fact, is not anything remotely approaching a democrat with a small "d." His entire objective is to weaken Eastern Europe, bring down NATO, so that he does not have to face the constituency he faces now.
Source: CNN N. H. Town Hall on eve of 2020 N. H. primary , Feb 5, 2020

US should promote LGBTQ rights worldwide; stop aid if needed
Q: I recently visited a country where homosexuality is illegal and could result in the death penalty. What is your stance on LGBTQ rights when it comes to our relationships with countries that have different beliefs?

BIDEN: In my State Department, we will have a special office that's devoted directly to promoting LGBTQ rights around the world. I would curtail aid to countries that engage in that kind of behavior.

Q: Saudi Arabia?

BIDEN: Saudi Arabia, same thing.
Source: CNN LGBT Town Hall 2020 , Oct 10, 2019

$750M to Central America to address root cause of migration
[Pres. Obama and I] knew the cost of investing in a secure and prosperous Central America was modest compared with the cost of allowing violence and poverty to fester. Following intensive negotiations between the Obama administration and the Northern Triangle presidents, Congress provided $750 million in 2016 to fund a whole-of-government effort to effect deep and lasting change in Central America. Because Central American governments had long been perceived--with good reason--as corrupt, inept and incapable of delivering basic services to their citizens, I supported Congress in tying the aid package to concrete commitments by regional governments to clean up their police, increase tax collection, fight corruption and create the opportunities necessary to convince would-be migrants to remain in their countries.

We also implemented new programs to help those in immediate danger by allowing them to apply for asylum. By the end of the Obama administration, we began to see results.
Source: Joe Biden OpEd in Washington Post (2020 Democratic primary) , Jun 25, 2018

Easier for Russia to deal with disunified West
Q: Is it accurate or useful to describe where we are with Russia as a second or new cold war?

BIDEN: I think that'd be a little bit of an exaggeration. The Cold War was based on a conflict of two profoundly different ideological notions of how the world should function. This is just basically about a kleptocracy protecting itself. That's a vast oversimplification. It's much easier if you're dealing with 28 different nations not in union with one another, not a Western economy that is coordinated.
Source: Council on Foreign Relations on 2020 candidates , Jan 23, 2018

Repair US relations with Central America's Northern Triangle
When a crisis erupted after unaccompanied children from the Northern Triangle in Central America began pouring across our border, he turned to me and said, "Joe, you've got to fix this." [The Northern Triangle refers to three Central American countries which are roiled by violence and crime, causing many thousands of emigrants to cross Mexico seeking refuge in the U.S.]

At one point soon after, the president asked me to take over the job o repairing our wobbly relations across the entirety of the Americas--the Northern Triangle, Brazil, the Caribbean, everything.

A few weeks after that I was headed to Guatemala for a two-day summit with the leaders of the Northern Triangle countries. My job was to persuade them that they had to make the hard political choices that would convince the United States Congress to fund their Alliance for Prosperity.
Source: Promise Me, Dad,by Joe Biden, p. 74&77 , Nov 14, 2017

Create secure, democratic, middle-class Western Hemisphere
[Even before the unaccompanied children crisis of 2014.] I had laid out some guiding principles for the U.S. engagement in Latin America. "In the region, we're still being viewed by many as disengaged, domineering, or both," I said, "but I would argue that's not us anymore. Too many in my country still look south to the region of 600 million people and see mostly pockets of poverty and strife. But that's not you anymore. Neither stereotype is accurate. And they haven't been, I would argue, for some time.

"The changes under way give all of us an opportunity to look at the hemisphere in a very different way: I think we should be talking about the hemisphere as middle class, secure, and democratic. From Canada to Chile and everywhere in between."
Source: Promise Me, Dad,by Joe Biden, p.128 , Nov 14, 2017

Russia vs. Ukraine: Big country beating up a smaller one
In 2015, Putin-backed separatists made an assault on Ukrainian soldiers. Putin was doing everything he could to destabilize the Ukrainian economy and force a collapse of the newly elected government in Kyiv.

I was the point man for our administration on the crisis, which was exactly where I wanted to be. There were academics in the news saying Ukraine was bound to be a defeat for the West, & it would be an unwelcome albatross on my neck if I ran for president in 2016. "He's tied to Ukraine policy," a presidential scholar from Pennsylvania told a reporter. "So he could be vulnerable." I didn't much care. There was an important principle at stake: big countries ought not to beat up smaller ones, especially after they had given their word not to. Ukraine had given up its nuclear weapons program years earlier--in return for a guarantee from the U.S., the United Kingdom, AND RUSSIA to respect its borders and its sovereignty. Two of the three larger countries had kept that promise.
Source: Promise Me, Dad,by Joe Biden, p. 99-101 , Nov 14, 2017

Intervention in Venezuela would turn S. America against US
If we decide that we are going to engage in covert action or overt military action, we would lose all of South America, increasing Maduro's hand and power, rather than diminishing it. We are working to make it clear that there is a serious price for Venezuela to pay if they continue the oppression. We have made known directly to Maduro and his foreign ministry our overwhelming distaste for what he's doing and what we expect to happen.
Source: Council on Foreign Relations on 2020 candidates , Sep 21, 2016

Nation-building can prevent full-scale military actions
Biden in January 2001 returned to Kosovo, Serbia and Bosnia and called for continued American troop and reconstruction efforts. Writing in the New York Times, he said, "We must make clear that our security umbrella and economic assistance will continue only if Bosnia breaks free from the stranglehold of its three nationalist parties. The fact is, nation-building, if done well, can prevent vastly more expensive full-scale military actions."
Source: A Life of Trial & Redemption, by Jules Witcover, p.331 , Oct 5, 2010

The US is less secure and more isolated in recent history
Our country is less secure and more isolated that it has been any time it has in recent history. The Bush foreign policy has dug us into a very deep hole, with very few friends to help us climb out. For the last seven years, the administration has failed to face the biggest forces shaping this century. The emergence of Russia, China and India's great powers, the spread of lethal weapons, the shortage of secure supplies of energy, food and water. The challenge of climate change and the resurgence of fundamentalism in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the real central front in the war on terror. We once again see the consequences of the neglect of Russia challenging the very freedom of a new democratic country of Georgia. Barack and I will end that neglect. We will hold Russia accountable for its action and we will help Georgia rebuild. I have been on the ground in Georgia, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, and I can tell you in no uncertain terms, this administration's policy has been an abysmal failure.
Source: Speech at 2008 Democratic National Convention , Aug 27, 2008

Foreign policy needs informed consent of American people
My colleagues kid me. From the beginning of the effort on Iraq I would say -- and there's not a single one of my colleagues that don't occasionally remind me of this, I would say that one of the things I think our generation learned is no matter how well informed, or brilliant a foreign policy is, it cannot be sustained without the informed -- say it again, "informed," informed consent of the American people. The informed consent.
Source: Council on Foreign Relations on 2020 candidates , Feb 25, 2008

Doctrine of crisis prevention, not preemption
Q: When future historians write of your administration's foreign policy, what will be noted as your doctrine?

A: Clarity. Prevention, not preemption. An absolute repudiation of this president's doctrine, which has only three legs in the stool: 1) don't talk to anybody; 2) preemption; & 3) regime change. I would reject all three. We need a doctrine of prevention. The role of a great power is to prevent crises. And we don't have to imagine any of the crises. You have Pakistan, Russia, China, Darfur.
Source: 2007 Des Moines Register Democratic debate , Dec 13, 2007

Joe Biden on Alliances
We stand with regional bodies to support constitutional rule
The United States seeks a more secure, more prosperous, more equitable world for all people because we know our future is bound to yours. Let me repeat that again: We know our future is bound to yours. And no nation can meet the challenges of today alone.

And in this moment where democratically-elected governments have been toppled in quick succession in West and Central Africa, we're reminded that this work is as urgent and important as ever. We stand with the African Union and ECOWAS and other regional bodies to support constitutional rule. We will not retreat from the values that make us strong. We will defend democracy--our best tool to meet the challenges we face around the world.
Source: Speech to the United Nations (2023 presidential hopefuls) , Sep 19, 2023

Recognized 1915 Turkish genocide of millions of Armenians
PROMISE MADE: (Twitter posting @JoeBiden, 4/24/20) Today, we remember the atrocities faced by the Armenian people in the Metz Yeghern--the Armenian Genocide. If elected, I pledge to support a resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide and will make universal human rights a top priority.

PROMISE KEPT: (NBC News, 4/24/21): Biden officially acknowledged the killing of more than a million Armenians by Ottoman Turks more than a century ago as genocide, a move that could complicate an already strained relationship between the U.S. and Turkey. As a candidate, Biden said he would make the designation, and a bipartisan group of members of Congress urged Biden to take action ahead of Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day,

ANALYSIS: Congress approved a resolution recognizing genocide in 2007, but Pres. Bush declined to support it, because it would harm relations with Turkey, our NATO ally. Pres. Obama promised recognition but declined to do so as President.
Source: NBC News on Biden Administration promises , Apr 24, 2021

Meet advancing authoritarianism, including China & Russia
We will repair our alliances and engage with the world once again, not to meet yesterday's challenges, but today's and tomorrow's. American leadership must meet this new moment of advancing authoritarianism, including the growing ambitions of China to rival the United States and the determination of Russia to damage and disrupt our democracy.

We must meet the new moment accelerating global challenges--from the pandemic to the climate crisis to nuclear proliferation--challenging the will only to be solved by nations working together and in common. We can't do it alone. We must start with diplomacy rooted in America's most cherished democratic values: defending freedom, championing opportunity, upholding universal rights, respecting the rule of law, and treating every person with dignity.

That's the grounding wire of our global power. That's our inexhaustible source of strength. That's America's abiding advantage.
Source: Manchester Ink Link on 2020 New Hampshire Senate race , Feb 4, 2021

Pressure China to obey international rules
BIDEN: I'd make China play by the international rules, not like he has done. When I met with Xi and when I was still vice-president, he said we're setting up air identification zones in the South China Sea. You can't fly through them. I said we're going to fly through them. We just flew B-52, B-1 bombers through it. We're not going to pay attention. They have to play by the rules.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

America First means America Alone
We're more isolated in the world than we ever have been. Our "America First" has made "America Alone." You have Iran closer to having enough nuclear material to build a bomb. North Korea has more bombs and missiles available to it. We find ourselves where our NATO allies are publicly saying they can't count on us.

We find ourselves, in the Western Pacific, where we're isolated as well. You have Japan and South Korea at odds with one another. China is making moves. So I would say, we're find ourselves less secure than we've been. I do compliment the president on the deal with Israel recently. But if you take a look, we're not very well trusted around the world. When 17 major nations in the world were asked who they trust more, who's a better leader, and the president came in behind both, the international survey, both behind Putin, as well as Xi. And look what Putin is doing.
Source: Second 2020 Presidential Debate/ABC Town Hall Philadelphia , Oct 15, 2020

Russia is an opponent, not an enemy
Q: The FBI Director said that Russia has been "very active in its efforts to influence the election & denigrate" you.

BIDEN: Putin knows me; the reason he doesn't want me as president: he knows I mean it [when I say that Russia] attempting to interfere with our election is a violation of our sovereignty. I don't mean war. But they'll pay a price. They'll pay a price for it, and it'll be an economic price. I've made it clear, early on, there will be a price to pay. And if it's done again, which it appears to be being done, there will be a price to pay.

Q: Can you be more specific? What is the price to pay?

BIDEN: It wouldn't be prudent for me to be more specific. But I assure you, they will pay a price.

Q: Do you believe Russia is an enemy?

BIDEN: I believe Russia is an opponent. I really do. Putin's overwhelming objective is to break up NATO, to fundamentally alter the circumstance in Europe, so he doesn't have to face an entire NATO contingent, any one country he is stronger than.
Source: CNN Town Hall 2020 drive-in with Anderson Cooper , Sep 17, 2020

NATO will crumble if Trump wins a second term
NATO is going to crumble if we don't beat Trump. NATO is in real trouble. We need NATO for more reasons than just physical security. We need NATO to make sure that we do not allow Russia to continue to have its influence in Eastern Europe in ways that it had before. It wasn't just to stop the Soviet Union from coming into the United States, coming into Europe. It was to make sure that we did not have a kleptocracy taking over that part of the world, to unite Europe in our behalf.
Source: 8th Democrat 2020 primary debate, St. Anselm College in NH , Feb 7, 2020

We must keep our commitments when we make them, like NATO
I was part of putting together the Paris Climate Accord. I brought in the Chinese. I've been part of every major initiative we've had relative to diplomacy. I have not argued for the placement of major numbers of US combat troops. I have said we have to strengthen NATO to make it clear that we keep our commitments when we make them. Like we don't keep our commitments to the Kurds. We must keep our commitments when we make them.
Source: 8th Democrat 2020 primary debate, St. Anselm College in NH , Feb 7, 2020

We should not have abandoned the Kurds
Thousands of Kurds died defeating ISIS. And what happened? This president yielded to Erdogan and he said that we would withdraw our forces along the Turkish border between Turkey and Syria. You have Kurdish women holding up babies saying, please, don't leave us. Those of you who are military personnel, you saw those men and women in our military and uniform with their heads down. They're ashamed.
Source: CNN N. H. Town Hall on eve of 2020 N. H. primary , Feb 5, 2020

I know all world leaders, and they know I keep my word
There's no time for on-the-job training. I've spent more time in the Situation Room, more time abroad, than anybody up here. I know every major world leader. They know me, and they know when I speak, if I'm the president of the United States, who we're for, who we're against, and what we'll do, and we'll keep our word.

I've never been more optimistic. We're the wealthiest nation in the world, our workers are three times as productive as workers in Asia. We have great research universities. I'm tired of everybody walking around like woe is me. Let's remember, this is the United States of America. There has never, ever, ever been a time when we have set our mind to do something we've been unable to do it. It's time to remember, get up, let's take back this country and lead the world again.
Source: November Democratic primary debate in Atlanta , Nov 20, 2019

Russia wants to break up NATO; work with Turkey to keep it
Q: The American Intelligence community says that Russia is trying to capitalize on the power vacuums around the world [left by America's exit from Syria and from alliances]. What would you do as President to check Vladimir Putin's power on the world stage?

Joe Biden: I think I may be, doesn't make me any better or worse, but may be the only person who spent extensive time alone with Putin, as well as with Erdogan. And Erdogan understands that. You talk about should he stay in or out of NATO? He understands that he's out of NATO, he's in real trouble. But the fact of the matter is we have been one willing in this administration because we have an erratic, crazy President who knows not a damn thing about foreign policy, and operates out of fear for his own reelection. Think what's happened. The fact of the matter is you have Russia influencing and trying to break up NATO. What does the president do? He says, "I believe Vladimir Putin. I don't believe our intelligence community."
Source: October Democratic CNN/NYTimes Primary debate , Oct 15, 2019

Work with NATO, with U.S. as the indispensable leader

    He accuses Trump of abandoning U.S. global leadership and wants to see the U.S. regain its place as the "indispensable leader of the free world."
    While Biden emphasizes diplomacy, he favors the NATO alliance so that "when we have to fight, we are not fighting alone."
    Biden sponsored the McCain-Biden Kosovo Resolution, which authorized the U.S. to lead the NATO assault on Yugoslavia and invasion of Kosovo in 1999. 

Source: Truthout.org, "War and Peace," on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Mar 27, 2019

Opposition to European alliances like NATO is dumb
Biden did not mince words when discussing the Trump administration's foreign policy, specifically criticizing the administration's skepticism towards the European Union and North Atlantic Treaty Organization. "Both of those, for the first time in 70 years, are under attack," Biden said, labeling the Trump administration's opposition to the two organizations as "the dumbest thing in the world."
Source: The Daily Pennsylvanian on 2020 Democratic primary hopefuls , Feb 19, 2019

US can't do it alone: stay engaged in the world
Biden discussed how it's important to reassert the U.S.' commitment to the world. "Seventy percent of American people think we should stay engaged in the world," he said. "We're being told that somehow America wants to walk away, not from our obligations but from our opportunities. Tell me, name me one consequential problem from global warming to the nuclear arms race that can be solved by us alone? Name me one."
Source: The Daily Pennsylvanian on 2020 presidential hopefuls , Feb 19, 2019

Revive Alliance for Prosperity with Central America
There is still time to build on the policy that emerged from the last major migration crisis in 2014--a policy modeled in part on the successful, bipartisan approach to Plan Colombia. When the vice president travels this week to Guatemala, the president should send him with a mandate to revive the intense diplomatic and aid efforts that gave rise to the Alliance for Prosperity, and opened a window of hope for the most besieged countries in our hemisphere.

We can both strengthen U.S. border security and treat migrants arriving from Central America with dignity and decency instead of cruelty and callousness. But their overwhelming desire to flee their countries and risk everything to enter the United States shows that their governments are still failing them. This migration will only continue unless we keep up the pressure and provide the support to make the Northern Triangle of Central America a prosperous and secure place to call home.
Source: Joe Biden OpEd in Washington Post (2020 Democratic primary) , Jun 25, 2018

An internationalist as Foreign Relations Committee chair
After the collapse of Biden's 1988 presidential campaign, Biden reinvented himself again, this time as the Foreign Relations Committee chairman, an internationalist who voiced skepticism about, but didn't oppose, the Iraq invasion. He was on everybody's short list for secretary of state and even re-entered the presidential ring in 2008. The race rebranded him as an avuncular liberal with an incongruous skill set: a blue-collar populist and jet-setting foreign policy wise man rolled into one gabby package. But he hadn't been a serious contender for the presidency since '88, and he tallied less than 1% of the Iowa Caucus vote in '08 before calling it quits on Jan. 3.
Source: Politico Mag profile, "Joe Biden in Winter" , Mar 1, 2014

US and Russia can disagree and still work together
When we came into office two years ago, our relationship with Russia had reached a low point. The war between Russia and Georgia played a role in that decline, but even before that conflict erupted in August 2008, a dangerous drift was under way.

While we no longer considered each other enemies, you couldn't always tell that from the rhetoric flying back and forth. Ironically, this came at a time when American and Russian security interests, as well as economic interests, were more closely aligned than ever. That's why Pres. Obama made it a priority to reset our relationship with Russia--and asked me to launch it just three weeks into the new administration at the Munich Security Conference. I said then that "the United States and Russia can disagree and still work together where our interests coincide. And they coincide in many places."

We focused the reset on concrete outcomes that serve both countries' interests--"win-wins," as President Obama calls them.
Source: Joe Biden Op-Ed in International Herald Tribune , Mar 14, 2011

New World Order should not mean US fights for the UN
Kuwait, with a January 15 deadline. Biden expressed concern that the president had changed and broadened his foreign policy goals in the Middle East. "We talk about a New World Order," he said, "A Resolution 678 authorized member states "to use all necessary means" to force compliance with the UN demands for Iraq's withdrawal from You go get them; we give you the authority to do it.' That is the essence of that New World Order. That is not a New World Order I am prepared to sign on to." New World Order in the United Nations and collective security adds up to 'We will hold your coat, United States.
Source: A Life of Trial & Redemption, by Jules Witcover, p.249-250 , Oct 5, 2010

Time to sit down and talk, talk, talk to enemies
Q: Secretaries of State Baker, Kissinger, Powell, they have all advocated some level of engagement with enemies. Do you think these former secretaries of state are wrong on that?

PALIN: No. Kissinger shared with me his passion for diplomacy. But with some of these dictators who hate America and hate what we stand for, they cannot be met with just sitting down on a presidential level as Barack Obama had said he would be willing to do.

BIDEN: #1, Barack Obama did not say sit down with Ahmadinejad. #2 five secretaries of state did say we should talk with and sit down. Now, John and Gov. Palin now say we have to bring our friends and allies along. Our friends and allies have been saying, "Sit down. Talk. Talk. Talk." Our friends and allies have been saying that, 5 secretaries of state, 3 of them Republicans. And John McCain has said he would go along with an agreement, but he wouldn't sit down. Now, how do you do that when you don't have your administration sit down and talk with the adversary?
Source: 2008 Vice Presidential debate against Gov. Sarah Palin , Oct 2, 2008

We can no longer police the whole world
Q: How do you feel about Pres. Ford's actions in foreign policy?

BIDEN: President Ford has not taken any new initiatives in foreign policy; he's conducting it in the manner of the 50's and 60's--basically a "cold war" philosophy, with a tinge of detente. In his "state of the world" message, he discussed every part of the world and there was no fundamental change of policy in any area. He spoke of all areas as having equal priority. He is still married to the concept that we can police the whole world, that we must stand up and be counted whenever communism--whatever that means, in the international sense--is a threat. There seems to be less emphasis on identifying U.S. self-interest than there is on that whole machismo thing that has guided foreign policy for so long. Kennedy may have been right for the early 60's, but his foreign policy would be wrong for 1975. Remember his inaugural address--we will fight any fight, defend any freedom... that kind of thing. We just can't do that anymore.
Source: People Paper (Newark DE) interview in Congressional Record , Oct 2, 1975

Joe Biden on East Asia
U.S. and Vietnam show adversaries can become partners
For decades, it would have been unthinkable for an American president to stand in Hanoi alongside a Vietnamese leader and announce a mutual commitment to the highest level of countries partnership. But it's a powerful reminder that our history need not dictate our future.

With a concerted leadership and careful effort, adversaries can become partners, overwhelming challenges can be resolved, and deep wounds can heal.
Source: Speech to the United Nations (2023 presidential hopefuls) , Sep 19, 2023

We are for de-risking, not decoupling, with China
When it comes to China, we seek to responsibly manage the competition between our countries so it does not tip into conflict. I've said, "We are for de-risking, not decoupling with China." We will push back on aggression and intimidation and defend the rules of the road, from freedom of navigation to a level economic playing field that have helped safeguard security and prosperity for decades. We also stand ready to work together with China on issues where progress hinges on our common efforts.
Source: Speech to the United Nations (2023 presidential hopefuls) , Sep 19, 2023

Regional Asian alliance with Japan, India and Australia
PROMISE MADE: (2020 campaign website JoeBiden.com): A Biden administration will do more than restore our historic partnerships; it will lead the effort to reimagine them for the future. We will strengthen our alliances with Japan, South Korea, Australia and other Asian democracies.

PROMISE PARTLY KEPT: (Financial Times, 3/7/21): President Joe Biden is poised to hold the first ever quadrilateral US summit with the leaders of Japan, India and Australia, as the four countries step up co-operation in an effort to counter China's influence in the Indo-Pacific.

OnTheIssues ANALYSIS: President Trump described NATO, the European-based anti-USSR alliance--as "obsolete"; NATO is what Biden means by our most important "historic partnership" Biden also hints at restoring SEATO, the equivalent Southeast Asian alliance, which would similarly re-create an anti-China and anti-North Korea alliance.
Source: Financial Times on Biden Promises , Mar 7, 2021

Trump has legitimized North Korea, a rogue state
Q: President Trump says that the Obama/Biden administration left him "a mess" in North Korea. Did you?

BIDEN: North Korea is a problem, and we're going make sure we can control them and make sure they cannot hurt us. If you want to do something about it, step up and help. If not, it's going to continue." What has he done? He's legitimized North Korea. He's talked about his good buddy, who's a thug. He talks about how we're better off. And they have much more capable missiles, able to reach US territory much more easily than before. The Korean Peninsula should be a nuclear free zone.

TRUMP: I met with Obama, he said, "The biggest problem we have is North Korea." He indicated we will be in a war with North Korea. I have a good relationship with Kim. We have a good relationship and there's no war. Having a good relationship with leaders of other countries is a good thing.
Source: Third 2020 Presidential Debate, moderated by Kristen Welker , Oct 22, 2020

Insist on our experts in China, we have to lead the world
Q: What consequences should China face for its role in this global crisis?

Joe Biden: I insisted, the moment this broke out, that we should insist on having our experts in China, in China to see what was happening, and make it clear to China there'd be consequences if we did not have that access. We have to lead the world. We need someone who knows how to bring the world together and insist on fundamental change in the way in which we're approaching this.
Source: 11th Democratic primary debate (Biden-Sanders one-on-one) , Mar 15, 2020

Meet with North Korea and China together
Q: How would you deal with North Korea?

BIDEN: You don't negotiate with a dictator, give him legitimacy without any notion whether he is going to do anything at all. You don't do that. Look what happened. [President Trump] gave this dictator--he's a thug--legitimacy. We've weakened the sanctions around the world.

Q: So what would you do?

BIDEN: I would be in Beijing, I would be speaking with Xi Jinping. I would be reassigning the relationship between the Japan and South Korea, and I would make it clear to China, we are going to continue to move closer to make sure that we can, in fact, prevent North Korea from launching missiles to take them down.
Source: 10th Democratic Primary debate on eve of S.C. primary , Feb 25, 2020

Protect the Uighurs, but no military action against China
Q: China is engaged in an unprecedented military buildup. Is the US on a collision course toward war with China?

Biden: It's on a collision course with China but not for war. What we have to make clear is that we in fact are not going to abide by what they've done. One million Uyghurs, Muslims, are in concentration camps. They're being abused. We should be moving 60% of our sea power to that area of the world, to let the Chinese understand that they're not going to go any further. Secondly, we should make sure that we began to rebuild our alliances. We in fact need to have allies who understand that we're going to stop the Chinese from their actions. We should be gone to the UN immediately and sought sanctions against them and the United Nations for what they did. We have to be firm. We don't have to go to war but we have to make it clear, "This is as far as you go, China." And in terms of their military buildup, it's real but it would take them about 17 years to build up to where we are.
Source: Newshour/Politico/PBS December Democratic primary debate , Dec 19, 2019

Speak out against China at UN, for Uighurs and Hong Kong
With regard to China, look, unless we make it clear that we stand for human rights, we should be going to the United Nations seeking condemnation of China, what they're doing with the million Uighurs that are there, essentially in concentration camps in the west. We should be vocally, vocally speaking out about the violation of the commitment they made to Hong Kong. We have to speak out and speak loudly about violations of human rights.
Source: November Democratic primary debate in Atlanta , Nov 20, 2019

China's growth & stability depends on US Pacific presence
I spent 10 days together with Vice President Xi of China. And we both acknowledged that the most dangerous thing is a misunderstanding. The only conflict worse than one that is intended, as my father would say, was one that's unintended. For example, I referred to the China Sea. I pointed out it's not China's sea; it's international waters. It's a matter of laying out clearly what the parameters of the relationship are and those of the neighbors.

If we do our job correctly and we interface directly with the leadership, there will be intense competition, there will be occasional misunderstandings, but our children will not be looking at China as a sworn enemy. I do not believe that's in the cards. I believe there is healthy competition from a growing, emerging China, which I would argue is in the interest of all of us. One of the reasons China has been able to have this period of sustained growth and stability is because of a US presence in the Pacific, not in spite of.
Source: Speech at the Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany , Feb 12, 2013

Open dialogue means no military conflict with China
Q: On China--how concerned are you about the conflicts brewing in the Pacific? What are the administration's plans to make sure that this will develop into a constructive partnership and not into a kind of new Cold War confrontation?

A: I am confident that it's in the interests of China and the emerging Chinese leadership that it not result in conflict. The last thing that they need at this moment is to engage in anything remotely approaching military competition with the US. I do not believe that is their intention. It clearly is not our intention. The most important thing to assure that this not occur is to have a frank, straightforward, private dialogue with the emerging leadership in China, letting them know what our interests are, letting them know what we believe our role is, and let them make judgments about whether or not that in any way conflicts with their growth patterns or their ability to maintain their own national security interest.
Source: Speech at the Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany , Feb 10, 2013

Rise of peaceful, responsible China in the interests of all
Tip O'Neill used to say, all politics is local. I believe all politics, particularly international politics, is personal. I think personal relationships matter. So when I visited China I made it absolutely clear that the United States does not view China with hostile intent and that we can cooperate and compete simultaneously. I've said many times, the rise of a peaceful and responsible China that contributes to global security and prosperity is in the interests of all nations.

And we all have a role to play in encouraging Beijing to define its interests more in terms of common global concerns than merely introspective concerns. The United States is a Pacific power. The bottom line is that the USA has an important and specific interest in an Asia-Pacific region that is peaceful and growing--as do our Russian friends and our Japanese friends. So we ought to intensify our cooperation in advance of those interests, moving forward together.
Source: Speech at the Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany , Feb 6, 2013

Hold China accountable; it's capitulation, not competition
Q: Many presidential candidates have talked tough about China and its human rights record in the past but, in the end, favor securing our economic interest rather than risk upsetting China. How would you balance human rights and trade with China?

A: I've been pushing, on the Foreign Relations Committee for the last seven years, that we hold China accountable at the United Nations. At the UN, we won't even designate China as a violator of human rights. Now, what's the deal there? We talk about competition in terms of trade. It's capitulation, not competition. Name me another country in the world that we would allow to conduct themselves the way China has, and not call them on the carpet at the UN

Q: So you would call them on th carpet?

A: Absolutely.

Q: You would appoint a UN ambassador who would press for this?

A: It's the one way to get China to reform. You can't close your eyes. You can't pretend. It is self-defeating. It's a Hobson's choice we're giving people here.
Source: 2007 Democratic radio debate on NPR , Dec 4, 2007

China holds the mortgage on our house, to pay for war
Q: Is China an ally or an adversary?

A: They're neither. The fact of the matter is, though, they hold the mortgage on our house. This administration, in order to fund a war that shouldn't be being fought and tax cuts that weren't needed for the wealthy--we're now in debt almost a trillion dollars to China. We better end that war, cut those taxes, reduce the deficit and make sure that they no longer own the mortgage on our home.
Source: 2007 AFL-CIO Democratic primary forum , Aug 8, 2007

Joe Biden on Mideast
No punishment for Saudis killing Jamal Khashoggi
PROMISE MADE:(Atlanta debate 11/20/19): "[Journalist Jamal] Khashoggi was murdered on the order of the crown prince. I would make it clear we were not going to sell more weapons to them, we were going to make them the pariah that they are. There's very little social redeeming value in the present government in Saudi Arabia.

PROMISE BROKEN: (A.P., 3/2/21): The Biden administration made clear it would forgo sanctions or any other major penalty against Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in the Khashoggi killing, even after a U.S. intelligence report concluded the prince ordered it. Ultimately, Biden administration officials said, U.S. interests in maintaining relations with Saudi Arabia forbid making a pariah of a young prince who may go on to rule the kingdom for decades.

OnTheIssues ANALYSIS: Biden was criticized for giving Bin Salman a pass, limiting sanctions to underlings carrying out his orders--but Biden played "realpolitik."
Source: Associated Press analysis of 2021 Biden Promises , Mar 2, 2021

Israel must embrace two-state solution
There is no solution for Israel other than a two-state solution. It's not possible to have a Jewish state in Middle East without there being a two-state solution. What we do is we have to put pressure constantly on the Israelis to move to a two-state solution, not withdraw a physical aid from them in terms of their security.
Source: Newshour/Politico/PBS December Democratic primary debate , Dec 19, 2019

Punish senior Saudi leaders; make them the pariah they are
Q: The CIA has concluded that Saudi Arabia directed the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The State Department says the Saudi government is responsible for executing nonviolent offenders and for torture. Would you punish the Saudis?

BIDEN: Khashoggi was murdered on the order of the crown prince. I would make it clear we were not going to sell more weapons to them, we were going to make them the pariah that they are. There's very little social redeeming value in the present government in Saudi Arabia.

KLOBUCHAR: We need a new foreign policy in this country, and that means renewing our relationships with our allies. It means rejoining international agreements. It means reasserting our American values. When the president did not stand up the way he should have to that killing and that dismemberment of a journalist with an American newspaper, that sent a signal to all dictators across the country that was OK, and that's wrong.
Source: November Democratic primary debate in Atlanta , Nov 20, 2019

2008: Pakistan is the world's most dangerous country
[The 2008 debate moderator] asked the candidates to name the most dangerous country in the world.

"Iran," said Obama.

"Iran," said Clinton.

Then it was Biden's turn. "Pakistan." The room did a double-take. As [Biden's long-time aide Ted] Kaufman explains, "Well, if Iran is a real problem because they MAY have nuclear weapons, Pakistan is a problem because they ALREADY HAVE nuclear weapons."

Plenty of national security experts agreed with Biden. As recently as 2017, the former CIA station chief of Islamabad said, "With a failing economy, rampant terrorism, the fastest growing nuclear arsenal, the sixth largest population, and one of the highest birthrates in the world, Pakistan is of grave concern. It probably is the most dangerous country in the world."

Kaufman concluded, "I absolutely think that the reason why Obama picked him for vice president was because of watching him on the Foreign Relations Committee, and going through the debates with him."
Source: The Book of Joe, by Jeff Wilser, p.123 , Oct 24, 2017

Jewish state of Israel is only way to ensure "Never Again"
My education started at my father's dinner table. My father was what you would have called a righteous Christian. It was at that table I first heard the phrase, "Never again." It was at that table that I learned that the only way to ensure that it could never happen again was the establishment and the existence of a secure, Jewish state of Israel.

I remember my father, a Christian, being baffled at the debate taking place at the end of World War II talking about whether or not to establish the State of Israel. My father would say, were he a Jew, he would never, never entrust the security of his people to any individual nation, no matter how good and how noble it was, like the United States.

President Obama shares my commitment. We both know that Israel faces new threats, new pressures and uncertainty. The threats to Israel's existence continue, but they have changed as the world and the region have changed over the last decade.
Source: Speech at the AIPAC Policy Conference , Mar 4, 2013

Condemned 1,600 new housing units in East Jerusalem
In Feb. 2010, Biden had just completed a rousing speech in Jerusalem and had vowed "absolute, total, unvarnished commitment to Israeli security" when the Israeli interior ministry announced that 1,600 new housing units would be built in East Jerusalem. The ministry said the decision had been 3 years in the making, had nothing to do with Biden's arrival. Biden immediately condemned the decision in scathing terms, calling it "precisely the kind of step that undermines the trust we need right now."

Biden thereupon delayed his arrival as a demonstration of his disapproval. The next day Biden went on to the Palestinian Territory. There he told Authority President Mahmoud Abbas that the latest Israeli decision "undermined that very trust that we need right now in order to have profitable negotiations," and was "why I immediately condemned the action." He said his criticism came "at the request of Pres. Obama," which drew applause, addition that "sometimes only a friend can deliver the hardest truth."
Source: A Life of Trial & Redemption, by Jules Witcover, p.470-471 , Oct 5, 2010

Biggest threat to US is from North Korea, Iran, & Russia
Q: What three nations, other than Iraq, represent, to you, the biggest threat to the United States?

A: The biggest threat to the US is, right now, North Korea. Iran not as big a threat, but a long-term threat. And quite frankly, the tendency of Putin to move in a totalitarian direction, which would unhinge all that's going on positively in Europe.
Source: 2007 South Carolina Democratic primary debate, on MSNBC , Apr 26, 2007

Moral self-interest in defending Israel & Western Europe
When we are talking about commitment of American lives and money, we should be saying, "What is our self-interest here?" Not simply an altruistic reason--we're here to "save" democracy, for instance. We should be asking, "How does it affect America and American lives?" There are at least three primary self-interest considerations:

    self-interest in terms of physical security;
    economic self-interest; and
    moral self-interest.

An example of the moral self-interest would be the fact that we cannot renege on our commitment to Israel. The repercussions domestically would be tremendous if we allowed Israel and two million Jews to be pushed into the sea. The same holds true for western Europe--we have strong cultural, ethnic, and hereditary ties there--everything from mothers and fathers who still live there, to our whole inheritance of a jurisprudential system. We simply can't let it "go down the tube."
Source: People Paper (Newark DE) interview in Congressional Record , Oct 2, 1975

Joe Biden on Voting Record
1993: Strongly endorsed $1.6B Russia aid package
In March 1993, I got an assistance program I could support: $1.6 billion in direct aid to help Russia stabilize.

Although a public poll said that 75% of the American people were opposed to giving Russia more money, and we were already in a hard fight for the economic plan, I felt we had no choice but to press ahead. American had spent trillions of dollars in defense to win the Cold War; we couldn't risk reversal over less that $2 billion and a bad poll. To the surprise of my staff, the congressional leaders, including the Republicans, agreed with me. At a meeting I convened to push the plan, Senator Joe Biden, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, strongly endorsed the aid package. Newt Gingrich was passionately in favor of helping Russia, saying it was a "great defining moment" for American and we had to do the right thing.
Source: My Life, by Bill Clinton, p.506-507 , Jun 21, 2004

Multi-year commitment to Africa for food & medicine.
Biden co-sponsored the Hunger to Harvest bill:

    In an effort to reduce hunger in sub-Saharan Africa, urges the President to:

    set forth five-year and ten-year strategies to achieve a reversal of current levels of hunger and poverty in sub-Saharan Africa, including a commitment to contribute an appropriate U.S. share of increased bilateral and multilateral poverty-focused resources for sub-Saharan Africa, with an emphasis on health (including HIV-AIDS prevention and treatment), education, agriculture, private sector and free market development, democratic institutions and the rule of law, micro-finance development, and debt relief; and

    work with the heads of other donor countries and sub-Saharan African countries and with private and voluntary organizations and other civic organizations to implement such strategies; and calls for

    Congress to undertake a multi-year commitment to provide the resources to implement those strategies; and

    the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to report on such implementation. 

Source: House Resolution Sponsorship 01-HCR102 on Apr 4, 2001

Impose sanctions and an import ban on Burma.
Biden sponsored imposing sanctions and an import ban on Burma

A bill to impose sanctions on officials of the State Peace and Development Council in Burma, to prohibit the importation of gemstones and hardwoods from Burma, & to promote a coordinated international effort to restore civilian democratic rule to Burma.

(The two Senate versions currently differ in wording). The Saffron Revolution Support Act states that it is U.S. policy to:

    support the democratic aspirations of Burma`s people;
    condemn the repression carried out by the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC); and
    hold accountable individuals responsible for the repression of peaceful political activity in Burma.

Directs the President to submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of:

    SPDC officials who play or have played a substantial role in political repression in Burma or in the commission of human rights abuses;
    Subjects persons so identified to U.S. entry prohibition and financial sanctions.
    Amends the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003 to prohibit the importation into the US of Burmese gems, teak, or other hardwood timber.
    Prohibits any U.S. person or corporation from investing in Burma.

Introductory statement by Sponsor:

Sen. McCAIN. The world has reacted with horror and revulsion at the Burmese junta`s recent brutal crackdown against peaceful demonstrators. In crushing the Saffron Revolution, killing hundreds and jailing thousands, including countless Buddhist monks, the junta has left no doubt about its blatant disregard for basic human decency. We, as Americans, stand on the side of freedom, not fear; of peace, not violence; and of the millions in Burma who aspire to a better life, not those who would keep them isolated and oppressed. Our response must go beyond statements of condemnation, and the time to act is now. This legislation imposes meaningful and effective punitive action against the cruel, thuggish, and illegitimate Burmese government.
Source: Burma Democracy Promotion Act (S.2257 & S.2172) 07-S2257 on Oct 29, 2007

Remove African National Congress from terrorist list.
Biden co-sponsored removing African National Congress from terrorist list

A bill to exempt the African National Congress from treatment as a terrorist organization. [The ANC is now the ruling party of South Africa; as head of the ANC, Nelson Mandela was imprisoned for 27 years by the apartheid government before becoming President of South Africa].

    For purposes of alien inadmissibility based upon terrorist-related grounds the African National Congress (ANC) shall not be considered to be a terrorist organization on the basis of any act or event that occurred before the date of enactment of such Act.
    Expresses the sense of Congress to exempt the anti-apartheid activities of aliens who are current or former officials of the government of the Republic of South Africa.
    Legislative Outcome: Related bill: H.R.5690; became Public Law 110-257 on 7/1/2008

Source: S.2979 08-S2979 on May 6, 2008

Implement Darfur Peace Agreement with UN peacekeeping force.
Biden co-sponsored implementing Darfur Peace Agreement with UN peacekeeping force

    A resolution calling for peace in Darfur.
    Calls upon the government of Sudan and other signatories and non-signatories to the May 5, 2006, Darfur Peace Agreement to cease hostilities.
    Calls upon the government of Sudan to facilitate the deployment of the United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force, including any non-African peacekeepers.
    Urges all invited individuals and movements to attend the next round of peace negotiations without preconditions.
    Condemns: (1) intimidation or threats against camp or civil society leaders to discourage them from attending the peace talks; and (2) actions by any party that undermines the Darfur peace process.
    Calls upon all parties to the Comprehensive Peace Agreement to support all terms of the agreement.
    Legislative Outcome: Resolution agreed to in Senate, by Unanimous Consent. 

Source: S.RES.455 08-SR455 on Feb 14, 2008


Paperback: Mitt Romney
vs. Barack Obama
On The Issues
Condemns Russia for provocative statements to Georgia.
Biden introduced condemning Russia for provocative statements to Georgia

A resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding provocative and dangerous statements made by the Government of the Russian Federation that undermine the territorial integrity of the Republic of Georgia.

    Whereas, since 1993, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Georgia has been reaffirmed by the international community and 32 UN Security Council resolutions;
    Whereas the Government of the Republic of Georgia has pursued with good faith the peaceful resolution of territorial conflicts in the regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia since the end of hostilities in 1993;
    Whereas, for several years, the Government of Russia has engaged in an ongoing process of usurping the sovereignty of Georgia in Abkhazia and South Ossetia by awarding subsidies, the right to vote in elections in Russia, and Russian passports to people living in those regions;
    Whereas the announcement of the Government of the Russian Federation that it will establish `official ties` with the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia and further involve itself in aspects of their government appears to be a thinly veiled attempt at annexation;
    Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Congress condemns recent decisions made by the Government of the Russian Federation to establish `official ties` with the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia;
    Calls upon the Government of the Russian Federation to disavow this policy, which gives the appearance of being motivated by an appetite for annexation;
    affirms that the restoration of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Georgia is in the interest of all who seek peace and stability in the region.

Legislative Outcome: Related bills: H.RES.1166 & S.RES.418; Agreed to by Senate; Passed/agreed to in House, by recorded vote: 390-23 (Roll no. 269).
Source: Resolution on South Ossetia (S. RES. 550) 08-SR550 on May 2, 2008

Acknowledge the Armenian Genocide of the early 1900s.
Biden co-sponsored acknowledging the Armenian Genocide of the early 1900s

    WHEREAS the Armenian Genocide was conceived and carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923, resulting in the deportation of nearly 2,000,000 Armenians, of whom 1,500,000 men, women, and children were killed, and which succeeded in the elimination of more than 2,500-year presence of Armenians in their historic homeland;
    WHEREAS, on May 24, 1915, the Allied Powers issued the joint statement of England, France, and Russia that explicitly charged, for the first time ever, another government of committing `a crime against humanity`;
    WHEREAS, despite the international recognition of the Armenian Genocide, the failure of the domestic and international authorities to punish those responsible for the Armenian Genocide is a reason why similar genocides have recurred and may recur in the future, and that a just resolution will help prevent future genocides:
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Senate calls on the President, in the President`s annual message commemorating the Armenian Genocide, to accurately characterize the systematic annihilation of 1,500,000 Armenians as genocide and to recall the proud history of US intervention in opposition to the Armenian Genocide.

Sen. DURBIN: The definition of `genocide` is `the deliberate and systematic extermination of a national, racial, political, or cultural group.` Scholars agree that what the Armenian people suffered in 1915 to 1917 fits the definition of genocide. To date, 19 countries and 37 US states recognize the Armenian Genocide. Genocide is wrong. It is evil. It is evil whether its victims are Armenians, Sudanese, Rwandan Tutsis, Cambodians or European Jews. Not to acknowledge genocide for what it is denigrates the memory of its victims. Recognition of genocide is part of the healing process. Official recognition will reaffirm our tradition of protecting the vulnerable and inspire us to not stand by and watch as genocide occurs in our time.
Source: Armenian Genocide Resolution (S.RES.106/H.RES.106) 2007-SR106 on Mar 14, 2007

Urge Venezuela to re-open dissident radio & TV stations.
Biden co-sponsored urging Venezuela to re-open dissident radio & TV stations

    WHEREAS for several months, the President of Venezuela, Hugo Chvez, has been announcing over various media that he will not renew the current concession of the television station `Radio Caracas Televisin`, also known as RCTV, which is set to expire on May 27, 2007, because of its adherence to an editorial stance different from his way of thinking;
    WHEREAS President Chavez justifies this measure based on the alleged role RCTV played in the unsuccessful unconstitutional attempts in April 2002 to unseat President Chavez, under circumstances where there exists no filed complaint or judicial sentence that would sustain such a charge under Venezuelan law;
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the Senate--
    (1) expresses its profound concern about the transgression against freedom of thought and expression that is being committed in Venezuela by the refusal of the President Hugo Chavez to renew the concession of RCTV
    (2) strongly encourages the Organization of American States to respond appropriately, with full consideration of the necessary institutional instruments, to such transgression.

Source: Radio Caracas Resolution (S.RES.211) 2007-SR211 on May 21, 2007

Let Ukraine & Georgia enter NATO.
Biden co-sponsored including Ukraine & Georgia in NATO

Congressional Summary: A resolution expressing strong support for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to enter into a Membership Action Plan with Georgia and Ukraine:

    reaffirming support for enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to include democratic governments that are able to meet the membership responsibilities;
    that NATO`s expansion contributes to its relevance;
    that Georgia and Ukraine are strong allies that have made important progress in the areas of defense and democratic and human rights reform;
    that a stronger relationship among Georgia, Ukraine, and NATO will benefit those countries and NATO member states; and
    that the United States should take the lead in supporting the awarding of a Membership Action Plan to Georgia and Ukraine. 

Legislative Outome: Resolution agreed to in Senate without amendment and with a preamble by Unanimous Consent.
Source: S.RES.439 & H.RES.997 2008-SR439 on Jan 31, 2008

Condemn violence by Chinese government in Tibet.
Biden co-sponsored condemning the violence by Chinese government in Tibet

A resolution condemning the violence in Tibet and calling for restraint by the Government of the People`s Republic of China and the people of Tibet. Calls for:

    a dialogue between the government of China and His Holiness the Dalai Lama on religious and cultural autonomy for Tibet within China; and
    release of peaceful protesters. 

    Calls on the PRC to:
    respect the right of the people of Tibet to speak of the Dalai Lama and possess his photograph;
    respect basic human rights;
    allow international journalists free access to China; and
    provide a full accounting of the March 2008 protests in Tibet.

Urges that the agreement permitting the PRC to open further diplomatic missions in the United States should be contingent upon establishment of a U.S. government office in Lhasa, Tibet.
Source: S.RES.504 2008-SR504 on Apr 7, 2008

Sanction Mugabe until Zimbabwe transitions to democracy.
Biden co-sponsored sanctioning Mugabe until Zimbabwe transitions to democracy

A resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the political situation in Zimbabwe. Expresses the sense of the Senate:

    supporting the people of Zimbabwe;
    that the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission should immediately release the legitimate results of the presidential election and ratify the previously announced results of the parliamentary elections;
    that President Robert Mugabe should accept the will of the people of Zimbabwe in order to effect a timely and peaceful transition to democratic rule;
    that the U.S. government and the international community should impose targeted sanctions against individuals in the government of Zimbabwe and state security services and militias who are responsible for human rights abuses and election interference;
    that the U.S. government and the international community should work together to prepare an economic and political recovery package for Zimbabwe;
    that regional organizations should play an active role in resolving the crisis; and
    that the U.N. Security Council should support efforts to bring about a peaceful resolution of the crisis and impose an international arms embargo on Zimbabwe until a legitimate democratic government has taken power.

Source: S.RES.533&H.RES.1230 2008-SR533 on Apr 24, 2008

Pressure friendly Arab states to end Israeli boycott.
Biden signed Schumer-Graham letter to Secy. Rice from 79 Congress members

    Dear Secretary Rice,
    In the past, the lack of sufficient support from [non-participating] Arab states have made it difficult to reach agreements [on the Arab-Israeli conflict]. You should press friendly Arab countries that have not yet done so, to:
    Participate in the upcoming international meeting and be a full partner of the US in advancing regional peace
    Take visible, meaningful steps in the financial, diplomatic and political arena to help Palestinian President Abbas govern effectively and meet obligations to fight terror
    Stop support for terrorist groups and cease all anti-Israel and anti-Jewish incitement
    Recognize Israel`s right to exist and not use such recognition as a bargaining chip for future Israeli concessions
    End the Arab League economic boycott of Israel in all of its forms
    Pressure Hamas to recognize Israel, reject terror, and accept prior agreements, and isolate Hamas until it takes such steps.

Source: Schumer-Graham letter to Secy. Rice from 79 Congress members 2010-LT-AR on Oct 2, 2007 
